AM I BLUE?

IT WAS too hot to reach for a drink.  The sun was transfixed in
the exact centre of the sky, like an egg frying in a blue pan.  The
jungle, which ended a scant fifty yards behind the bungalow,
loomed through the screening in rigid petrified stillness.  Even in
the shade of the veranda the heat was so thick I could almost
touch it.

A ship had come in during the morning--one of those old
Chinese tubes that trade through the islands--but they were waiting
until it grew cooler to unload her.  I was waiting too.  A rubber
plantation does not grow of its own free will, the well-publicised
luxuriance of the tropics notwithstanding, and we were currently
engaged in the arduous business of pruning and transplanting a
stand of seedlings.  In the oven of that noontime, however, the
seedlings could wait.  When the great heat clamps down over
the north New Guinea coast, time itself waits.

Through a half-doze I heard voices approaching the bungalow.
At first I assumed they belonged to a couple of my native foremen;
I knew that the Reverend Thirkill, the only other white man in
Botowayo, had gone to a neighbouring village for the day but
the next moment I was brought up as if by an electric shock.  The
voices were talking English.  Not only that, but one of them was
a _woman_ talking English.  You do not meet many white men in
a remote trading post at the mouth of a jungle river in north New
Guinea.  In two years my contacts with my own race had consisted
of Thirkill, who represented a Scottish missionary society, and a
handful of Dutch and English traders.  The unannounced appearance
of two representatives of the outside world--and one of them
a female--was no less startling than if that simmering lead-blue
sky had opened and poured down snow.

I jumped up; and there, coming down the path towards the
bungalow, were a man and and-yes-a woman, with one of the black
boys from the village showing them the way.

"Hello there!" I shouted, coming down the steps.  The sight
of two white faces was so momentous I wouldn't have been
surprised if I had kissed them.

The man said hello, and came up and shook hands.  Then I
turned to the woman, but she wasn't interested in the amenities.

"Look," she said.  "We're in trouble."

By this time I had had a fair look at them, and from their appearence
it wasn't hard to believe she was telling the truth.  They
were as seedy-looking a pair as I had seen in my life.  I could tell
right off they were Americans--the way they spoke mostly and,
I don't know, you can tell--but it didn't need a detective to see they
hadn't come off any luxury liner.  The man was a little fellow,
sort of haunted-looking, in a threadbare serge suit.  Why he didn't
keel over with it in that heat, I'll never know.  He moved with
sharp jerky gestures and had a quick nervous face.  It would have
been a fox's face, or perhaps a weasel's, if it hadn't been for the
eyes.  There was something vague there, and a little blurred, that
threw everything else out of focus.  I was to find out soon enough
what it was.

From the first, though, I was more interested in the woman than
in the man--which wasn't unnatural, I suppose, considering I
hadn't seen a white woman, aside from a couple of Dutch skippers
wives, in nearly two years.  The first thing I saw was her hair.  It
was that platinum stuff, or at least it had been, but she must have
run out of whatever it is they put on it, because now it was about
a third platinum, a third dirty blonde, and another third dark, all
mixed together.  She had a nice-enough-looking face--small
features, and eyes that a man would have noticed if they hadn't
been so tired--but there was too much make-up, and most of it
had run in the heat.  Actually, she was about the same size as the
man, but she looked much bigger: good shoulders, a straight
carriage, a body that looked firm and a little hard.  I noticed her
legs particularly.  There were big knots of muscles at the calves,
and they moved up and down when she walked.

I brought them up on the veranda and offered them a drink.
The woman shook her head, but the man said, "I'll tell the world!"
I put a bottle of Scotch and a glass beside him and told him to
help himself.

Then he began his story.  To make it short, this ship that had
just come in was dumping them there in Botowayo.

"Where was it supposed to take you?" I asked.

"To Australia," he said.  "Sidney."

Then it came out that they were--of all things--a vaudeville
team from the States.  For the past year they had been appearing
in picture houses and cafés from Tokyo to Singapore.  Their names
were Perkins and Polly, and I never found out anything more.  I
don't know to this day if they were husband and wife, or what.
Not that it matters.

They had last been in Hong Kong, where they were booked for
some sort of engagement, and that seemed to have been the end
of the line.  "After three of four weeks," he said, "we found
ourselves running low in funds---"

He was interrupted by a noise from the woman.  It might have
been a laugh or it might have been something else.  "That's one
way of putting it," she said.

Perkins went on to explain that they'd reached the point where
they were two jumps ahead of starvation, when a cable came from
their agent saying that he had booked them for ten weeks in some
picture-house circuit in Australia and that they should sail immediately.
The only thing he had missed up on was the little matter
of sending some money.  But it was either Australia or the junk
heap for them, and somehow they had managed to scrape up
enough to take passage on this Chinese tramp.  They had left
Hong Kong ten days before and had been due in Sidney in another
week.

And then, when they were just off the New Guinea coast, the
blow had fallen.  A wireless had come to the ship, ordering it to
return at once to Hong Kong to be turned over to the Nationalist
Chinese on Formosa.  A few hours later it had put in at Botowayo
and was now preparing for the voyage back.  They had their
choice of returning with it or getting off.

Perkins' voice had grown more and more strained as he told his
story, and at the end he was staring at me in desperation.  His
whole little fox face seemed to jerk and quiver, and the bottle
shook as he poured another drink.

"We can't go back!" he concluded.  "We'd starve!"

"There'll be a ship of the Royal Dutch Packet Line touching
here in three weeks," I told him.  "It goes on to Brisbane."

"Three weeks!"

I nodded.  "This is an out-of-the-way place, you know."

For a moment, Perkins just looked at me.  Then he
said softly: "But even if we had money for our passage, that
wouldn't do us any good.  This booking we have begins in ten
days.  If we're not there we're" --he hesitated, groping--"we're
through."

"Surely you'll get other--er--engagements," I began.

The woman broke in again with that sound that might have
been a laugh.  I looked at her almost with a start.  "Sure," she
said in a flat voice, "the president or whatever they got there is
gonna give us a grand a week to dance at the palace."

Perkins started to plead:  "There must be something you can
do.  You've got to do something!"  His face was rolling sweat
and his eyes were screwed up as if he were going to cry.

"I'll see that you're put up while you're here," I told him.

"But that's no good!" he wailed.  "Don't you understand?
We haven't had a real hob in months.  We've got nothing.  Our
only chance is this thing in Sydney, and if we miss it we're finished."
[  s.s.                                                             c]

Suddenly he grabbed hold of my hands.  "Please help us!  Please!"

I don't know whether I felt sicker in my heart or my stomach.
I pulled my hand away and said, "At least try to be a man about
it."

"Sit down, you lug," said the woman.  Perkins collapsed heavily
in his chair and poured himself another drink.  She turned to me,
and her face under the running make-up was like some sort of
hard rock.  "To make it short and sweet," she said, "you're
telling us there's nothing we can do?"

"I can't order the Hong Kong government to change its mind,"
I said.  "I can't make another ship show up in Botowayo just by
wishing for it.  All I can do is see that you're taken care of until
the next thing comes along."

Perkins put his hands over his face and started to shake all over.
The woman stood up.  "Okay, mister," she said.  "If that's
the way it is, okay."

"I'm sorry," I said.

"Sure," she said.  "Sure you're sorry.  Everybody's sorry.  Oh,
well, one more day, one more kick in the pants.  I wonder how
many a human being can take."  She looked down at her snivelling
partner.  "Come on, Jack Benny; let's get the trunk."


That afternoon they moved in with me.  Not that I wanted
them, but there was nowhere else for them to go.  The only other
white man in the place was the Scotch missionary, Thirkill, and
all the space he had was a little two-by-four bunk next to his
meeting-house.  So up came their trunk from the ship, with half
the village trailing after.  It was one of those heavy theatrical
trunks, for their costumes and props, and outside, in big white
letters, it said:  PERKINS AND POLLY, PURVEYORS OF RHYTHM AND
REPARTEE.  I don't know why I particularly remember that.
Somehow it struck me as the most pathetic thing in the whole
pathetic business.

I put them in the little room I generally use for my office, and
for a while I saw scarcely anything of them.  The work with the
seedlings took up all my days, and I only got back to the bungalow
to sleep.  What they were doing with themselves all day long
I didn't know--or at least I didn't know until I went to the closet
one night to get myself a whisky, and then I knew what _he_'d
been doing all night.  In four days he'd cleaned out half my stock.
Next morning I locked up what was left and told him what I
ought to do was turn him out on the beach and let him shift for
himself.

He did everything but break down and cry, and swore he was
absolutely on the wagon from that minute on.  I knew he was, as
far as my liquor was concerned, but it was no more than I expected
when I found him down in the village the same evening trading
neckties and razor blades for this _kava_ the natives make.  From
then on he spent nearly all his time in the village, and I don't
think he drew more than one sober breath every twenty-four
hours.

The woman, Polly--that's the only name I knew her by--didn't
pay any more attention to his swilling than if he had been one of
the native bucks.  I wasn't his wet nurse, and I was glad enough
to have him out of the house, but one day I couldn't help bringing
up the subject.

She didn't even look at me when she answered, in that hard flat
voice of hers: "I guess that's the way he forgets his troubles."

"How do you?" I asked her.

"I don't," she said.

That was almost the only conversation I had with her in the
first week they were with me.  Day and night she used to lie out
on the veranda, just looking out to sea or plucking at her eyebrows
with some little tweezers she had.  She took care of her body with
a kind of inbred mechanical instinct, like a baby holding a bottle
or a cat licking its fur.  She always wore a ratty old blue kimono,
but, in spite of it, and for all her tiredness and hardness, she was
still a good-looking woman.

The strange thing--at least I suppose it was strange--is that
I never really thought of her as a woman.  After two years it
wouldn't have seemed unnatural if the sight of white skin and
a trim firm figure had made me sit up and take notice.  But it
didn't.  There was something so gutted-out about her, so bare
and clean-picked inside, that being with her was like being with
a mummy.


