GIRL ON HORSEBACK

THE NIGHT thinned.  One by one, hundred by hundred, the stars
faded, and the earth spun slowly into grey mist.  It spun, and
then seemed suddenly to stop.  The summer countryside--houses,
barns, woods, pastures, streams--hung suspended in twilight.
Only the mist moved.  It filled the space between earth and sky
and rose in milky billows from the hollows in the fields.

In a pink and white bedroom in the big Georgian house called
Crowelly a girl of twelve awoke.  For several moments she lay
quite still, for the dream she had been having was still partly with
her.  She heard the hoofbeats receding, saw the gleam of a mailed
arm waving--Launcelot's--or was it her brother Bruce's?  Then
it was gone.  There was only the footboard of her bed, and beyond
it the open window, through which grey mist was sifting.

She got up and crossed to the window.  The room was still
heavy with shadow, but outside the night was gone.  At first she
could see nothing but the mist;  then the seemingly solid mass
broke into streaming tatters, and through them the earth appeared.
She saw the garden path, the row of maples, the corner of the
stable, all familiar, yet strangely unfamiliar in the ashen half-light.
Beyond the stable the pasture stretched out of sight, losing itself
in white haze.  There was no colour anywhere, but everything was
gleaming, cushioned with a hundred million drops of dew.

The girl stood absolutely still.  It was into such a world, hidden
and secret, that the dream always dissolved.  The knight, the
[ s.s.                       65                           E]
plunging stallion, the glint of armour and a pennon gaily tossing;
then hoofbeats fading, fading--and Katie, the maid, looming redfaced
above the bed.  Only this time there was no Katie.  The
thought darted in her mind that she was still asleep.  She turned
back to the room.  No, there were the dark outlines of things she
knew: the bed, the chairs, the dresser with the china rabbits.  She
was awake.  The twilight world on which she had just looked
through the windows of the mist was real.

Suddenly her heart was beating hard and fast.  She ran to the
bathroom, splashed water on her face and hands, and combed her
yellow hair with three sharp strokes.  Then she got her clothes
from drawers and closet and put them on:  underthings, socks,
white shirt, jodhpurs, boots; last of all a blue pullover sweater.
She did not pause once, for she knew that to pause was to think.
And to think would be the end of it.

The hall was dark and still.  Feeling her way, she passed the
doors of her parents' and brother's rooms and, on tiptoe, descended
the stairs.  A moment later the front door closed behind her.  It
was lighter outside, and she ran across the lawn.

Entering the stable, she could see the outlines of the stalls and,
above them, the heads of the horses.  A subdued clumping and
shifting greeted her appearance.  "Shh!" she commanded.
Moving swiftly in the warm redolent gloom, she crossed to the
harness rack and took what she needed: blanket, saddle and
stirrups, bridle and bit.  Then she let herself into Arundel's stall.
The animal nudged a wet nose against her forearm, and stood
quiet under the touch of the familiar hands.  In a few minutes
everything was ready.  She led the horse from the stable and
mounted.

They followed a gravel path for a few yards, then cut over into
the pasture.  This was the way by which they would soonest be
out of sight of the house.  The pasture was a quiet plain of stillness.
There was no wind, and the tatters of mist hung motionless above
the hollows.  Between them the grass glistened moistly, sucking
colour from the slowly brightening sky.  The only sounds were
the creak of leather against the horse's flanks and the soft plop of
hoofs on the turf.

The girl kept her mount at a walk.  She was too proudly competent
a horsewoman to let him out at once--even though no one
was watching.  Presently, however, they left the pasture and came
out on a narrow dirt road.  The horse snorted, seemed almost to
poise himself for what he knew was coming; then, with the lightest
touch of her heels, they were off.

There was no trot, no canter.  One moment they were walking
sedately along the narrow road; in the next they were plunging
in full flight.  Fields, trees, fence-posts and rocks streamed by, as
they swooped between them like the wind.  In that still, newborn
countryside they _were_ the wind.  The horse's body strained forward.
The girl's knees grew tight on its withers and her hands
on the reins.  But not too tight.  She rode freely, joyously; her
short yellow hair whipped back from her face, and her blood sang.
"Faster, faster!" she whispered.  She would ride on forever like
that, in the dawn, alone.  No--her heart swelled--not alone.
There he was, the _other rider_.  There were the hoofbeats, the glint
of a mailed arm.

_Launcelot..._

She all but pitched to the ground as the horse shied.  Clinging
to its mane she succeeded in keeping astride, and by the time she
regained her balance it had stopped.  A moment later she found
herself following the animal's eyes to a point at the roadside.
There, on the soft grass under a sycamore, a figure lay sleeping.

Or, rather, had been sleeping.  For now the figure suddenly sat
up and looked around.  It was a boy--of perhaps fifteen, she
guessed--dressed in a soiled polo shirt, denim pants and sneakers.
His face, as he stared at her, looked white and startled, but she
could not see it very well because of the dark hair that hung askew
over his eyes.

She tried to think of something to say, and said, "Oh!"  The
boy continued staring.  After a moment she regained her composure
and added, "Good morning."

The boy looked her slowly up and down.  "Who are you?"
he asked at last.

"I'm Nancy Crowell.  Who are you?"

"Where do you come from?"

"I live in the big brick house on the other side of the pasture.
Where do _you_ come from?"

"What's it to you?"

The girl stiffened.  "Oh," she said.  "You're that kind of boy."

"What kind?"

"Rude."

The boy laughed.  Nancy flushed and turned Arundel's head
down the road.  "Hey, wait!" he called.

"What do you want?"

The boy got to his feet and approached her.  She saw that his
body, under the nondescript clothes, was lean and hard.  His eyes
were dark and squinted a little.  She felt a sudden impulse to give
Arundel the heel and go racing away; but she sat quite still.

"Where am I?" the boy asked.

She looked at him in surprise.  "Why, in Connecticut, of course.
Kent's over there, about five miles."  She pointed.

"I mean, where's this road go?"

"Oh.  Nowheres much.  This is private property."

The boy grinned.  "Too bad there's no cops around."

"Cops?"

"You could have me pinched."

"Why should I want to have you--pinched?"

"Isn't that what you private-property birds always do?"

"Oh, you mean you're trespassing."  Nancy smiled slightly.
"We don't mind if people trespass a little--if they're nice people
and not rude."

"Huh?"

"If they answer questions politely--like who they are, for
instance."

The boy stared up at her, and something that was almost friendliness
touched his sullen eyes.  "My name's Nick," he said.

"Nick what?"

"Strincevich."

"Why were you sleeping there?"

"I always duck off the main roads at night.  Too many cops."

She looked at him uncomprehendingly.  "Are you--a tramp?"

"I dunno. Maybe."

"You mean you haven't any home or family?"

"Pretty nosy, aren't you?"  The boy squinted at her, then
looked at the ground.  "I got an old man in Jersey City.  I hate
his guts."

Nancy gulped.  "How can you say such a thing?"

"What the hell, I'll never see him again."

"You mean--you're running away?"

"Sort of."

"Where are you running to?"

"Nowhere special."

"Nowhere?"  Nancy stared at him with round eyes.  "You
--you mean you're just going to see the world?"

The boy shrugged.

"Oh, I think going off and seeing the world is the most wonderful
thing anybody can do!"

"Some of the world's okay, maybe.  Most of what I've seen of
it stinks."

"That's a horrid word.  Besides, the places I mean don't.  Places
like the Grand Canyon and Venice and the South Sea Islands.  I
haven't been to any of them yet, but I've read about them and
seen pictures, and there's nothing like them anywhere."

"I don't know much about places like that.  Anyhow, you can't
get to any of them unless you're in the Army or Navy."  The boy
raised his head and looked slowly about him.  "It ain't so bad
here," he said.

"It's beautiful, sometimes."

She too looked up and saw that the sky had grown much lighter.
The sun had not yet risen above the hills to the rest, but the dawn-
mist was almost gone, and trees and grass stood out clear and
green

The boy had moved to the side of the road and was picking tiny
red berries from a bush.  As she looked at him again he popped a
handful into his mouth.

"Oh, you mustn't do that," she cried.

"Why?"

"They're not ripe.  You'll get sick."

"I'd sooner be sick than hungry."

He went on munching, and Nancy watched him.  Then she
said, "There are some bushes farther in with riper berries.  I'll
show them to you."

She dismounted and tethered her horse to a fence-post.  Then,
the boy following, she explored the nearby thickets until she found
a bush that was heavy with full-blown blackberries.  They plucked
and ate until the bush was almost bare.

When they came back to the road Arundel was munching loudly
in the fresh wet grass.  Nancy perched herself on the fence-post,
and Nick sat on a flat rock beside her.

"It must be wonderful to run away," she said.

"Depends on what you're running from, I guess."

"No.  I don't mean that.  I mean just to leave home, all of a
sudden, and go and go---"

"You want to do that?"

"Sometimes."

"How come?  You're rich, aren't you?"

"I suppose so.  And Daddy and Mother and everybody are
awfully nice.  Only--only, I don't know--sometimes you get the
feeling that you're surely going to die if you don't get away from
everybody and everything and just go off, some place far off where
--where---"  She stammered and stopped.

"Don't you ever leave here?"

"Crowelly, you mean?  Oh, yes.  Most of the year I'm in
Greenwich, at Miss Bryce's School, and Christmas and Easter we
usually go to New York for the opera and theatre and things.
Then we've been to Southampton and Maine and once to California
for the summer."

"Sounds like you been everywhere."

She shook her head slowly.  "It's not the same.  It's not like--
like running away."  She looked down at the boy, and saw that
he was staring into the distance.  He could not have been more
than fifteen, but his face was strangely hard and cold--even older,
somehow, than her father's.  "Where have _you_ been, Nick?" she
asked.

"Nowheres much."  He did not look at her.  "Jersey City,
Trenton, Yonkers--dumps like that.  My old man moves around
from one job to another.  When he sobers up, that is."

"Haven't you a mother?"

"She lives with some other guy."

"Oh."  Nancy looked away quickly.  "How did you happen
to come through here?" she asked after a moment.

"A guy in the Bronx gave me a lift to Danbury.  Since then
I been walking.  Just stumbled on this road, I guess."  Suddenly
he looked at her with his dark eyes.  "I'm kinda glad I did."

"I'm glad too," she said.

They fell silent, watching the rim of the sun push up behind
the wooded hills.  The last of the mist was gone, and around them
the countryside sprang swiftly into gleaming life.  Nancy closed
her eyes, and the light lay pink and warm upon the lids.  She began
to hum softly.

"What was that?" asked Nick when she had finished.

She opened her eyes.  "What I was humming?  The _Liebestod_."

"Huh?"

"It means the 'Death of Love'.  It's from an opera."

"It's okay."

"It's the most wonderful opera in the world.  It's called _Tristan_
and it's about two lovers, a princess and a knight....

"A what?"

"A knight.  You know--a strong, brave man who goes all
over the world, winning battles and saving beautiful ladies.  Like
--like Launcelot...."  The boy looked up at her, and she paused,
blushing.  "So you like music?" she asked.

He dug into a trouser-pocket and pulled out a big lopsided
harmonica.

"Oh, how lovely!"  She clapped her hands.  "Play for me."

"I don't know anything much good.  I'll try that Lee--lee----"

"_Liebestod_."

He put the instrument to his lips, and the notes she had just
hummed came out thin but true.  He had played for only a few
minutes, however, when Nancy suddenly raised her head.

"Listen," she said.

From far down the road, in the direction from which she had
come, they heard the clop of a cantering horse.  At the same
moment Arundel raised his head from the long grass and whinnied.

"They're looking for me!"

"Who's they?"

"Daddy--or Bruce--I don't know."  She jumped down from
the fence-post.  "Oh dear, I thought I'd get back before----"

She cut off her words as a horse and rider swung into sight
around a bend of the road.  The rider was a tall broad-shouldered
boy of sixteen with a pinkish clean-scrubbed face and cropped
blond hair.  He was dressed in light riding habit and rode with
the grace of an expert horseman.  Reining in, he stared first at
Nancy, then at Nick, then back at Nancy again, and the anxiety
that had clouded his face gave way to annoyance.  "What's going
on here?" he said at last.

"This is Nick," said Nancy uneasily.  "Nick, this is my brother,
Bruce."

"Hiya," said Nick.

Bruce Crowell nodded briefly and turned to his sister.  "And
now suppose you explain what you're up to?  Everyone's looking
for you, and Mother's nearly frantic."

"I--I just came out for a ride."

"Oh--just for a ride?"  Bruce mimicked her angrily.  "Sneaking
out of the house before anyone's up and making everybody
think you're kidnapped or something."  His glance flashed on
Nick.  "Who are you?" he snapped.

"My name's Nick.  Your sister just told you."

"What are you doing here?"

"Nothing much."

"Well, whoever you are, you'd better move along and do nothing
much somewhere else.  This is private property and---"

"And you're going to call a cop."

"Maybe I will at that."  The red in Bruce's cheeks grew deeper;
then he turned to his sister.  "Come on," he said sharply.

"I don't think I like your tone, Mr. Brewster Crowell," said
Nancy.  "Who do you think you're ordering around, anyway?"

"I'm ordering you around.  You've made enough trouble for
one morning."

"Maybe I feel like making some more."

Bruce stared down at her for a moment.  "Are you coming,"
he asked, "or aren't you?"

Nancy hesitated; then she stared back at him.  "No," she said
firmly.  "I'm not."

"Why, you little brat!"  Her brother dismounted quickly,
seized her by the arm and began dragging her towards her tethered
horse.

"Let me go!  Ow!  You're hurting my arm!"  She struggled
ineffectually to break his grasp.  "Let me go, you bully!"

As Bruce continued dragging her along, Nick stood up.  "Lay
off her," he said quietly.

The other released his grip and wheeled around.  "What's
that?"

"I said lay off her."

The two were standing close together now, and Nancy saw that
her brother was a full three inches taller and much heavier than
the other boy.  Suddenly his right fist flew out and caught Nick
on the mouth.  Nick staggered back, lost his balance and sprawled
on the road.

"Anything more to say?" asked Bruce.

