HELLO DARLING

THE ESCALLOPINE of veal had been excellent and the Camembert
even better.  Monte Small opened his gold cigar case and offered
a Havana Partegas to Lou Callan of Premier Pictures.

  Callan took one.  "Look, Monte---" he began earnestly.

  "Coffee?"  Small inquired.  "A liqueur?"

  His companion shook his head.  "Look, Monte," he went on,
pulling his chair closer to the table.  "You know damn' well
neither Metro nor Warner is going to top any hundred and fifty
grand."

  Small lit his cigar and contemplated the blue curls of smoke.
"I've got no idea at all," he said gently, "what Metro or Warner
or anybody is going to do.  All I know is, the picture rights of
_Forever Yours_ are going to cost somebody two hundred thousand
even."  He called for the check, signed it and tipped the waiter
and captain five dollars each.  "Got to get back to the office, Lou,"
he explained, rising.

  Callan stood up reluctantly.  "I'll have to talk to the Coast
again, Monte.  I'll call you later."

  "Sure.  Sure, Lou," said Small amiably.  "Glad to hear from
you any time."

  It took him the better part of a half-hour to get out of Sardi's.
The tables were filled with acquaintances--fellow-producers,
theatre operators, actors, a scattering of solvent directors and press-
agents--and his progress was interrupted every few steps by
greetings and handshakings.  When at last he reached the door he
favoured the hat-check girl with a "How're you, honey?" and
another five dollars.  He affected not to hear a round-eyed girl
standing nearby whisper to her companion, "There's Monte Small,
the producer."

  Monty Small, the producer, walked slowly east and turned up
Broadway.  There was, it seemed to him, a snap and glitter in the
October sunlight that gave a sheen even to the drab prospect of
Times Square at midday.  The escallopine and Camembert sat
well on his stomach, and his new double-breasted pin-stripe did
things to his figure that only a two-hundred dollar suit can do.
A few blocks north, down Forty-eighth Street, an electric sign
filled half the sky.  The sign said:

                        MONTY SMALL
                         presents
                       LORETTA LYNN
                            in
                       FOREVER YOURS
                       Royal Theatre
                        ****--News

  In the four blocks between Sardi's and his office there were more
nods, hellos, handshakes and a warm, almost purring sensation of
well-being enveloped him....  So Broadway was tough, was it?
A phony tinny trollop with a pebble for a heart.  Some people's
Broadway, maybe, but not Monte Small's.  There was a pan-
handler at the corner near his office, and he dropped a dollar into
his cigar box....  Two hundred thousand bucks ...  He took
a deep pull on his Havana Partegas.

  He went into his office through the private door.  It was a big
luxurious room with oversized furniture, panelled with hundreds
of signed photographs.  Like Billy Rose's, someone had said.

  Well, why not?

  He sat down at his desk and rang for Miss Josephs.

  "Any calls?" he inquired.

  Miss Josephs looked at her pad.  She was forty-five, buck-toothed
and mousy, and Small had hired her because she was the only
woman he had ever met who didn't want t go on the stage.
"Mr. Byram of Paramount", she said.  "Mr. Wilk of Warner.
And Acme Agency about the fight tickets."

  "Have they got them?"

  "They said four in the tenth row ringside."

  Small frowned.  "I told them first five rows or nothing.  Call
them back."

  "How about Mr. Byram and Mr. Wilk?"

  "Don't bother."  Small smiled a little.  "They'll call again."

  Miss Josephs nodded.  "And Miss Lynn is here."

  Small looked up in surprise.  He had not been expecting a visit
from the star of _Forever Yours_.  "What's she steamed up about
now?" he asked.

  "I don't know.  She arrived just a moment before you rang."

  "Humph.  Anyone else?"

  "Miss Walters is here, and that young girl about the understudy
part.  They've both been waiting about an hour."

  "Tell Miss Lynn to come in," Small said.  Miss Josephs crossed
to the door.  "And tell those muzzlers over at Acme," he called
after her, "that if I don't get in the first five rows they're going to
have one sweet time buying tickets for my show."

  His secretary left, and a moment later Miss Loretta Lynn came
through the door.  Schiaparelli, John Frederic and Elizabeth Arden
had done themselves proud.  If one looked carefully one could
furthermore see that they had had a tasty, if diminutive, subject to
work on.

  "Hello darling," Small greeted her, rising.

  Miss Lynn did not answer her producer's smile.  "The next time
I come here," she said, crossing to his desk, "you can tell that
woman of yours I'm not used to waiting in outside offices."

  "Sit down, Loretta," said Small, still smiling.  His star seated
herself opposite him and tapped a cigarette against a blood-red
thumbnail.

  "You'd think I was some tramp off the street, looking for a job,"
she went on.

  Small's smile grew more urbane.  "What's wrong?" he asked.
"Too much Morocco last night?"

  "Never mind the cracks," said Miss Lynn.  She leaned towards
him and her eyes narrowed.  "What's that woman doing out
there?"

  "What woman?"

  "You know damn' well what woman.  That old--what's-her-
name--Walters duck."

  "Eunice Walters, you mean?"  Why, she's in the show."

  "Is she really?" said Miss Lynn sweetly.  "Well, what's she
been telling you?"

  "She hasn't been telling me anything," said Small.  "I haven't
seen her yet."

  "Well, she will.  Only I'm going to tell you first.  I suppose
you haven't heard anything about what happened backstage last
night?"

  "Oh, that."

  "Yes, that."  Her eyes snapped angrily.  "Well, what did you
hear?"

  "I heard you lost your temper," said Small.

  Miss Loretta Lynn's perfect lips parted in astonishment.  "_I_ lost
_my_ temper?  That's a hot one!" she laughed.

  "I heard you went into Miss Walters' dressing-room and slapped
her face."

  "You're damn right I slapped her face.  If I wasn't such a damn'
lady I'd have slapped it weeks ago.  If that broken-down old
scrubwoman thinks she can get away with that sort of stuff with
me----"

  Small leaned forward and patter his star's arm.  "Take it easy,
Loretta," he said.  "What's Miss Walters been doing?"

  "Oh, nothing.  Nothing at all."  Miss Lynn replied.  "Only
stealing the biggest scene in the play every night since we opened."

  "Which scene is that?"

  "My God, Monte--you'd think you've never even seen your own
show.  The end of the second act, I mean.  You know, where
Arthur leaves me and I want to die, and then this old frump playing
the cook comes on and gives me all that eyewash about cooks
having troubles too."

  "I thought you were swell in that scene."

  "You're damn right I'm swell.  I'm so swell every man, woman
and child in the house ought to be sitting there crying their eyes
out.  Instead, what happens?  This Walters biddy starts throwing
her weight around with that Weber and Fields comedy of hers,
and I might as well have stayed in the dressing-room."

  "I thought Miss Walters was pretty good too."

  "All right.  I won't argue with you.  She's wonderful.  She's
Duse and Cornell and the Keystone Cops rolled into one.  But
what the hell does the audience care about her when they think
I'm going to commit suicide?"

  Small looked out the window and pulled gently at his vest.  The
escallopine did not seem to be sitting so well, after all.  "I'll have
a talk with Miss Walters," he said.

  "You'll have a talk with her hell," said Miss Lynn.  "You'll
fire her."

  Small swung slowly around.  "What?"

  "You heard me."

  "That's ridiculous!"

  "So it's ridiculous.  But I'm telling you this----"  Miss
Lynn leaned across the desk and emphasised her words with a
sharp rapping of her nails.  "Either you give that woman her
two weeks' notice before to-night's performance, or I give you
mine."

  Small opened his mouth, but all that happened was that he
closed it again.  After a moment he rose, walked around the desk
and put his hand paternally on Miss Lynn's shoulder.  "Look,
honey," he began, "you've got yourself excited and----"

  "And I'm staying excited.  Do you think I'm going to let some
crummy fifty-dollar-a-week hasbeen make a fool out of me?"

  "I told you I'll talk to Miss Walters.  She's an experienced in-
telligent actress, and I know she'll be glad to co-operate."

  Miss Lynn had risen to her feet.  "Okay," she said.  "Give me
a pen and I'll write my notice."

  "Nonsense."

  "Give me a pen."

  Twenty-eight years in show business had not left Monte Small
entirely ignorant of the phenomenon sometimes referred to as
artistic temperament.  "I've two suggestions to make," he said in
his softest voice.  "The first is that you relax before you start
crying and spoil your face.  The second is that we have a little
drink."  He went to a sideboard, poured two ponies of brandy
and handed one to Miss Lynn.  When she had downed it he poured
her another.

  "Well?" she asked.

  Small stood close beside her and put his hand lightly on her
arms.  "I know you're not really serious about all this," he said
gently; "but even supposing you were.  Would you give up the
star part in the biggest hit in New York to spite some poor incon-
sequential actress you've got a mad against?"

  "You mean," replied Miss Lynn evenly, "would I give up
twelve-fifty a week for playing in your show to go back to
Hollywood for four thousand? You're damn right I would."

  It was a moment before the producer spoke again.  Then he
said, in an equally even tone:  "Listen to me, Loretta.  Miss
Walters is a fine artist, even if she's only playing a bit.  I think
she's excellent in her part, and so does everyone else.  Still, I'm
willing to talk to her, as long as you've got this idea in your
head."

  "But you refuse to fire her?"

  "I do."

  Miss Lynn set down her brandy glass and walked to the door.
Small watched her.  Then he lost his temper.  "You can't pull
that kind of stuff with me," he shouted.  "I'll go to Equity. I'll
sue you.  I'll have you barred off every stage in the country."

  Miss Lynn turned smilingly and put a finger to her lips.  "Shh,
darling," she whispered.  "You'll upset your stomach."

  "By God, you may be the star of this show, but I still own it!"

  "Of course, sweetheart--of course you own it."  Miss Lynn's
face now wore the sweetly understanding smile that tore at twelve
hundred heartstrings nightly.  "And of course Metro and Premier
and those other sucker picture companies are going to pay you real
money for it without Loretta Lynn."  She threw him a kiss.  "And
do watch your digestion, dear.  Remember, when you lose your
temper you get heartburn."

  The door closed.

  In the outer office Miss Josephs waited for the buzzer that
would summon her into her employer's presence.  It was a long
time coming.

  When finally she entered the inner office Small was seated
behind his desk.  "How about those fight tickets?" he asked.

  "Acme said they would try to improve them," replied Miss
Josephs.

  "They'd better."

  There was a silence.  Miss Josephs waited a few moments and
then said, "Miss Walters and Miss Stevens are still waiting."

  "Miss who?"

  "Stevens.  The young girl about the understudy part."

  "Oh, yes."  Small nodded absently.  "Well, tell her to come
in."  Moss Josephs started for the door.  "No, tell Miss Walters
to come in."

  "Yes, Mr. Small."

  "No, tell her----"  But it was too late.  Before he had a
chance to recall his secretary, Miss Walters entered.

  Small did not rise, but extended his hand across the desk.  "Sit
down, Eunice," he said.

  Miss Walters adjusted herself in the wing chair that was just
wide enough to receive her bulk.  She was a woman of about sixty,
with a plain tired face and plain clothes, and looked less like a
Broadway actress than a New Jersey housewife.  Only a faint
shadow on eyelids and cheekbones hinted at forty-five years'
application of mascara and grease paint.  When she was settled,
with her hands folded comfortably upon her middle, she seemed
ready to speak.  But Small forestalled her.

  "I know all about it already," he said.

  Miss Walters looked surprised.  "About what?" she began.
Then she understood.  "Oh, that."  She signed a little.  "I suppose
that's what Miss Lynn was here about."

  "Isn't that what you're here about?"

  Miss Walters shook her head.  "Oh dear, no.  Well--that is--
it was awfully upsetting and unfortunate, of course, but I wasn't
going to bother you with it.  The stage manager promised he
wouldn't say anything."

  "Both the stage manager and Miss Lynn have made full reports,"
said Small grimly.

  The old actress made a clucking sound and shook her head.
"Isn't it a shame now, making a rumpus of so little.  Of course,
as I say, it was upsetting, and Miss Lynn shouldn't have done
what she did.  But my goodness"--she leaned forward and spoke
in a confidential tone--"you and I've been in show business long
enough, Mr. Small, to know the kind of things that happen some-
times, and make small allowances."

  It was Small's turn to look surprised.  "You mean you're not
upset any more?" he asked.

  Miss Walters allowed herself a moment's thought.  "Well, not
--yes, I should say I probably was.  But I'll get over it all right.
This Miss Lynn now--she's such a big star and a fine actress.  It's
a shame she's such a high-strung little thing.  But when she thinks
it over she'll be sorry for what she did and apologise.  She's really
a fine little trouper, deep down."  She made a gesture indicating
that the subject was closed.  "Don't worry your head about it
any more."

  Small stared at her for an instant.  Then he said, "What was it
you wanted to see me about, Eunice?"

  "Eh?"  Miss Walters hurriedly collected her thoughts.  "Oh,
yes.  I've always said to everybody:  Mr. Small is one producer
who's always glad to get suggestions from his actors.  Things for
the good of the show, I mean."  Small nodded.  "Well, I've been
thinking a lot about my part, of course, and the idea came to me
just yesterday about a piece of business we could put in.  It's in
the scene after Miss Lynn's husband leaves her and I come on to
clear the table and----"

  Monte Small looked out the window at the shining blue sky,
criss-crossed with the rigid framework of electric signs.  He had
definitely been overeating at lunch lately, Small decided.  Or was
it that his new suit was too tight.  He unfastened the two bottom
buttons of his vest.

  "Do you like the idea?" Miss Walters was saying.

  "Why--er--yes," the producer murmured.  "It sounds all
right."

  "It cuts out a few of my lines, of course"--she smiled--"and
naturally no actress likes that so much.  But I thought maybe it
would make things easier for Miss Lynn."

  "Easier?"

  "Oh, I'm human the same as anyone else, of course, and I don't
think Miss Lynn has acted right to me."  Miss Walters leaned
forward earnestly.  "But I know how it is with stars, and how hard
this sort of thing is for you.  And I just thought--well--it might
be good for the show."

  Small stared at her for a moment.  Then he said quietly:
"You're a big person, Eunice."

  "Big?"  Miss Walters glanced down at her billowing form
and laughed.  "If anybody but you said that I think I'd be the one
to do the face-slapping."  Suddenly she looked straight at him.
"No, Mr. Small.  I'm not big.  I'm just trying to be helpful.  And
grateful."

  The producer did not answer at once.  For a while his gaze
returned to the window; then he swung slowly around.

  "How's your health been, Eunice?" he asked.

  His visitor looked surprised.  "Why--why it's fine, thank you."

  "Your neuritis, I mean?  Sure you haven't been overdoing
things?"

  Miss Walters' expression changed to a smile.  "If that isn't just
like you," she said.  "Always worrying yourself about other folks'
troubles."  She leaned across the desk and patted his hand.  "Bless
you, no, Mr. Small.  I've never felt better in my life."

  "I've been watching you closely, Eunice, and I've been thinking
maybe the work is too much for you."

  "Too much for me?  Five little minutes on a stage too much
for me?"  Miss Walters laughed.  "Lord, it was getting back to
work that saved my life, Mr. Small!"  She paused, and suddenly
the lines of her lips and eyes grew hard.  "When I think back on
those six years, I don't know how I went through them.  Six
years it was I was without a job.  Sponging off people I hardly
knew.  Sitting in that furnished room waiting for the relief cheque.
Getting turned away by producers who were in diapers when I was
playing with John Drew and Richard Mansfield.  It's that sort of
thing that kills you.  Not work.  I--I--oh, I don't even want to
think about it now....  You've been very good to me, Mr.
Small."  She smiled again.

  Small put his fingertips together and stared at them.  "You've
been saving some money, I suppose?"

  Miss Walters had regained her spirits.  "Oh, a little here and
there.  But you know old Eunice--never much of a one at stowing
things away.  There's always a hat here and a bag there.  And
you should _see_ my new apartment.  At the Columbia Towers, it
is," she concluded proudly.

  "I mean, are you looking ahead at all, to when--when the show
closes?"

  "When it closes!"  She laughed happily.  "I'll bet a week's
salary _Forever Yours_ will be playing right in this town one year
from to-day."

  Small stood up.  "Look, Eunice," he said.  "I have to talk to
you about something."

  "If you're going on gabbing about my health," declared Miss
Walters, "you might as well save your breath.  The only thing
you have to worry about, the way I'm feeling now, is that I might
leave you to join Mike Todd's chorus."  She laughed again.

  Small waited until she was through.  "I have to explain to you
about this affair with Miss Lynn," he said softly.

  "And don't you bother yourself about that either.  I won't talk
about it.  I won't prefer charges at Equity, or anything.  I know
Miss Lynn will be apologising to me--to-night maybe, or to-
morrow night--and that'll be an end of it.  Now about that piece
of business I was telling you..."  Small was pacing slowly up
and down behind his desk.  "You see what I mean.  I'm standing
there holding the dishes, and all of a sudden when I see that Miss
Lynn is crying I drop one, and she----"

  "Eunice!" said Small sharply.

  "--and the crash breaks her mood, you see, and then she asks
me what I'm doing and I begin my story."  She looked at the
producer expectantly.  "Beg pardon, Mr. Small, you were going
to say something?"

  But now that she had stopped, Small didn't speak.  Instead,
he turned away and looked out the window.  Finally he said in a
curiously flat voice:  "I'll have to think it over."

  "Well, I'm sure when you've really thought about it you'll
agree it's just the thing."  Miss Walters declared.  "And I'm sure
it will please Miss Lynn."  She arose and smoothed the front of her
dress.  "And now I've kept you too long already.  I know what
a busy man you are."  She crossed towards the door.  "And don't
you go worrying about old Eunice's health.  There's life in the old
gal yet!"

  Her laugh rang out again.  Then her bulk filled the doorway
and was gone.

  This time the buzzer in the outer office didn't ring at all.  Miss
Josephs waited five minutes, then arose and entered the sanctum.
The producer was standing at the window, looking out.

  "Acme called again about the fight tickets," said his secretary.
"They have them in the third row."

  Small nodded.

  "And Miss Stevens is still here."

  "Stevens?  I don't know any Miss Stevens."

  "She's the young lady about the understudy part.  You asked
her to come back."

  "Tell her I'm busy."  Miss Josephs hesitated, then turned to go.
"No, wait."  The producer turned slowly from the window and
seated himself at his desk.  "She's the one who gave such a good
first reading, isn't she?"

  "I believe you liked her very much."

  Small nodded absently.  Then suddenly his mouth narrowed in
a grim smile.  "Tell her to come in," he said.

  Miss Josephs left, and a moment later a girl appeared.  She was
a lovely fresh-looking girl, of perhaps twenty or twenty-one,
obviously ill at ease now that she was being admitted at last to the
Presence.

  The Presence nodded.  "Sit down, Miss--er----"

  "Stevens.  Peggy Stevens."

  The girl sat down, smiling nervously.  It made her still more
nervous that the producer did not look at her, but seemed to be
absorbed in something out the window.  "I--I've studied the
script you gave me," she began hesitatingly.  "Oh, it's such a
wonderful part, and you're so good to give me another chance----"

  "Would you please read a few lines, Miss Stevens?" said Small.
"I'd like to hear you again."

  "Why, of course."  The girl smiled and began turning the pages.
"Which scene would you like me to do?"  She waited a moment,
but the producer did not seem to be listening.  She selected a scene
and began to read.  Her voice, at first, was strained and faltering,
but she gained confidence as she went on, and soon it was strong
and sensitive and sure.

  "Go on," said Small, when she had finished the scene.

  The reading continued, and for half an hour the producer sat
with half-closed eyes and the thin smile broadening on his lips.
He was, he realised, listening to one of the best readings he had
