I SEEN 'EM GO

It's queer the different ways you get to know people.  Mostly
you learn somebody's name first, then what he does and where he
comes from, and last, maybe, what sort of guy he is.  At the ball
games it's just the other way around.  Looking back, it seems like
I knew McPopoff, Nitwitz, the Commodore and a couple of the
other boys in the bleachers as well as if I'd grown up with them.
But I hardly had any real dope about them at all, and I never
even found out their names.

What I've just called wasn't their real names of course.
The Commodore had been the Commodore since way before
anybody could remember; they used to say Ruppert just found
him there when he started putting up the Stadium and built the
bleachers under him.  Nitwitz got his name from McPopoff--I
guess because he was an intelligentual and knew all the answers.
As for McPopoff, he was just Popoff at first, on account of his
hollering so much.  After a while though it didn't sit right at all,
with him as Irish as a Third Avenue bar and Popoff sounding
Russian or something; so somebody tacked on the Mc and there
it was.

I guess he was the only one of the three you might of noticed
if you ever sat around Section 14.  God knows you couldn't of
helped hearing him if you were stone deaf and had earplugs
besides.  He was a great big guy with a red face that got redder
when he hollered and a pair of arms that looked like something
[S.S.                         49                           D]
from the butcher's.  He was always wearing the same pair of
corduroy pants and a six-bit blue polo shirt with the zipper missing.
The Commodore might of been sixty or he might have been eighty.
He had two mean little black eyes sunk way back in his face behind
a beak nose and a big brush of a moustache that I guess would
have been iron-grey if it hadn't always been full of chewing
tobacco.  The old boy never stopped spitting, and when the games
were over the aisle under his seat looked like the Bronx Sewage
Disposal Plant after a heavy rain.

Nitwitz didn't look like much of anything, and I don't think
I'd recognise him if I passed him in the street to-day--which isn't
likely.  He was a dark baldy sort of runt, wore glasses, and looked
like he expected somebody all of a sudden to sock him on the jaw.
No matter how hot it got--and it got plenty during July and
August--he never seemed to sweat like the rest of us, and his face
was as white as if he'd been spending the summer in a cellar.  He
was always dressed much neater that the other guys, usually in
a dark suit, and he had a gold fountain pen he was all the time
figuring with on little pieces of paper.

The first couple of weeks of the season I didn't notice any of
them much, but when the Yanks came back from their first road
trip there we all were again, and it started being like a sort of a
club.  Nobody ever said hallo or so long or anything like that, and
all we ever talked about was baseball; but seeing fellows all the
time like that you couldn't help getting acquainted.  I don't think
any of them ever missed a day, and we were all there regular at
one o'clock, in plenty of time for batting practice.  Nobody ever
left till after the last man was out in the ninth.  Then we got up
without saying anything and went our different ways.  I never
found out where any of them lived or where they went to when
they weren't in Section 14.  The only one I ever saw outside the
Stadium was McPopoff, and that was one morning on Sixth
Avenue while I was watching them tear a building down and Mac
was there too.  Sometimes when we were kidding Nitwitz and his
higher mathematics he'd say things that made me pretty sure he
used to be a C.P.A. or something like that, but that's all I knew
about him.  Nobody knew anything at all about the Commodore.
It was a pretty good bet though that he didn't have no yacht.

Guys like these are the fans.  I mean the real fans.  I guess anybody
with one eye and a score card can call himself a fan, but
these boys were something else again.  I never saw one of them
with a score card; they had better ways to spend a dime, and
besides they could tell every player in the league just by looking at
his feet.  Where they dug up the sixty cents a day--why they didn't
have to work afternoons--I never found out.  Maybe they were all
night bell-hops like me.  Anyhow, wherever they came from,
whatever they did outside, at the ball games guys like them are _it_.
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday.  May, June, July,
August.  Red Sox, White Sox, Tigers, A's.  There they are.  They
_know_.  They _belong_.  The players call them "wolves" and pretend
to hate them, but they know there wouldn't be any baseball
without them.

Before the games, while the batting and fielding practice was
going on, the talk would be mostly about averages and percentages.
This was where Nitwitz shone.  What the little guy knew about
the players' records would make the official scorer look like he
didn't know DiMaggio from the bat boy.

"Now look," he'd begin his spiel, "this kid Healey hit .346 in
the International last year.  Year before that he hit .372 with
Danville in the Three-Eye.  Figuring the relative strength of the
pitching in the leagues at ten for the American, seven for the
International, and four for the Three-Eye---"

"Baloney," said McPopoff.

"--and allowing that Healey's improved say fifteen per cent in
three years, he's sure to hit at least .320 this season."

"He'll hit .240", says McPopoff.  "He's a punk."

"All you have to do is look at the record," argues Nitwitz.  By
this time he'd be leaning forward across the row between him and
Mac and writing down figures on a piece of paper with his gold
pen.

"Have it your own way," Mac says, "I say he's a punk, and'
he'll be back in Dogpatch in a month.  What say, Commodore--
ain't this Healey a punk?"

The Commodore lets loose with some tobacco juice on the
floor and looks at it as sharp as if he expected to find some gold
nuggets.  "Well, he ain't no Hans Wagner," he says.

"He's a punk," Mac says again.

The Commodore spits some more and takes a fresh plug out
of his pocket.  "I seen 'em come an' I seen 'em go," he says.
"Sooner or later they're all punks."

This seems to satisfy everybody except Nitwitz, and he just sits
quiet, writing down his figures.  Nobody says anything more
about Healey until maybe an hour later the game begins and he
comes up for his first licks.  The time I remember, he came up
with men on first and third and one away.  Nitwitz didn't say
anything, but I could tell without even looking at him he was
practically busting a gut for Healey to powder that old ball.  Mac,
down in the front row, let out a yawn they must of heard over on
the Grand Concourse and said, "Three out."

Well, I'll be a left-handed shortstop if Healey didn't take a cut
at the first pitch and smack it right down to second for a double
play.  Nitwitz's lips were moving and I guessed he was saying,
"That don't prove anything," or something like that, but Mac was
laughing so hard you couldn't hear him.  Then Mac says, talking
so loud everybody in the section could hear: "Guess he'd a done
better swinging' that pen of yours instead of a bat."  Everybody
laughed like hell, except Nitwitz.

That's the way it went mostly.  Nitwitz always had the dope,
and McPopoff always laughed at him, and four times out of five
Mac was right.  I've never seen a guy that got such a kick as that
big Irishman out of watching guys make monkeys out of themselves.

I'll never forget the blowoff the boys had over Pete Chartok's
salary.  Pete, you'll remember, had gone great guns the year before
and held out most of the spring for twenty-five grand.  The club
only wanted to pay him twenty, and they didn't finally get together
on some sort of compromise till almost the middle of May.  By
that time the fans were pretty much steamed up about it, some
on Pete's side and some on the club's.  The first day he's to
play he no sooner shows his face on the field than half the
crowd begins applauding and the other half booing.  McPopoff
booed so loud a subway train went past and I couldn't even
hear it.

"What have you got against Chartok?" Nitwitz asked him.

"He's a punk," Mac came back.  "An' he expects 'em to pay
him twenty-five grand for being one."

"You can't call a man a punk who hit .317 last year and led the
league in stolen bases," said Nitwitz.

"I don't care if he hit .417," Mac said.  "No dumb Polack outa
some Scranton coal mine is worth no twenty-five grand."

"It seems to me," said Nitwitz, "a player is justified in trying
to get as much as he thinks he can."

"An' the club's entitled to get him for as little as it can."

"Oh no, it's not the same thing."

"How ain't it the same thing?"

"A ball player is a worker," Nitwitz said.  "As a worker he's
got a right to the best salary and working conditions he can get.
The club, on the other hand, is the employer.  It represents capital.
And it's the employer's obligation to return a fair share of that
capital to the workers who produce it."

"Bushwah," said McPopoff.

"No," Nitwitz tells him.  "It's you that have the bushwah
ideas.  It's the work of Chartok and the other players that make
money for the club.  They're entitled to that money."

For the first time I could remember Mac turned around and
looked at him.  "Say, you a Commie or something?" he asked.

"I'm no Commie," said Nitwitz.  "But at least I've got some
idea of the relation of labour and capital."

"Maybe that's why you're hangin' out here every day instead-a
havin' a job," Mac came back.  "On account of you understand
labour and capital so good."  He began laughing like hell and turns
to me.  "How about it?" he asked.  "You think maybe Nitwitz
got a offer himself for twenty grand and he's holding' out for
twenty-five?"

The boys around were laughing a little, and I had a pretty neat
crack all set.  But just as I was opening my mouth I got a side look
at Nitwitz's face and kept it to myself.

"No ball player's worth twenty-five thousand," piped up the
Commodore.  "Big Ed Delehanty could of carried this Chartok
around in his pocket, and the top salary he ever got was three
grand."

"Chartok's a punk," said McPopoff and turned back to watch
the practice.  When the game started Chartok fanned twice,
popped up twice and made a two-base error.  Mac had the time
of his life.

About the middle of June the Yanks went west, and there were
no games at the Stadium for a couple of weeks.  I guess some of
the boys went over to the Polo Grounds to watch the Giants, but
myself I'd sooner do my sleeping in my bed.  The time passed all
right though.  Before noon you could get into most of the Forty-
second Street picture houses for a quarter, and they were pulling
down a lot of old buildings on Madison Avenue.  That's where
it was I saw McPopoff one morning.

Mac wasn't the sort of guy you'd go up and talk to in the street,
and the odds are he wouldn't of recognised me if I had.  That
was the only time I ever saw him except when he was in the
front row of Section 14 and all the boys were around, so I never
talked any with him.  But a few days later, after the Yanks were
back, things worked out so I got to chewing the rag a little with
Nitwitz.

It was after a game with the Indians, and I was just getting up
to go when I saw that gold fountain pen of his lying in the aisle
under his seat.  I picked it up quick and was just going to slip it
in my pocket, when I noticed there was some writing on it,
stamped right in the gold and running up the side.  It said, "To
Morton from Sarah, with love."  I looked around, and there
was Nitwitz a little way off heading for one of the exit gates.  I
caught up with him before he got there and tapped him on the
shoulder.

"You lost your pen," I told him, holding it out.

He took it from me, and the way he looked at it you'd of
thought it was ten thousand bucks in cash.  "Thanks," he said.
"Thank you very much."

"That's a pretty nice pen," I told him.  "You oughta take care
of it."

"I'm afraid it's getting old," he said.  "The clasp doesn't hold
any more."

"It still writes good," I said.  "I've seen you keeping score and
things, and it writes nice and fine."

"It's an accountant's pen," he explained.  "They have extra fine
fine points."

"I sort of figured you was an accountant or something," I told
him.  "The way you sling those batting averages around."

"Yes," he answered.  "I used to--I mean I'm an accountant.
C.P.A."

"I guess maybe all ball fans should be C.P.A.s," I said laughing.
"You sure got the game down to a science."

"I've given a lot of study to it in the last few years," he said.
"Baseball can be made an exact science, the same as anything
else."

"You'd have a tough time proving that to McPopoff," I told
him.

We'd come out of the exit and were heading over towards
the subway station.  Nitwitz was quiet for a while and then all
of a sudden he said without looking at me: "I don't like that
fellow."

"Who--Mac?" I asked.  "Mac's a hell of a blowoff, but he's
funny sometimes."

"He's a defeatist," said Nitwitz.

"A what?"

"He's licked," Nitwitz said.  "Life has licked him, so he tries
to get even by hating it."

"I wouldn't know about that," I told him.

"He hates my figures," he went on, "because he can't understand
them.  He hates the players because they're young and
successful.  I'd rather be dead than hate things like that."

Maybe there was the right comeback for that, but I wasn't the
guy that knew it.  We walked along without talking and pretty
soon came to the subway and separated.  That's all there was to
my talking with him, and I'm only telling it on account of
things that happened later.

There was some hair-raisers in the Stadium during July.  For
the first time that year the Yanks hit a real slump, and the Indians
and Red Sox were both crowding them hard.  The hitters weren't
hitting, the fielders weren't fielding, and the pitching staff looked
like they should of been throwing for P.S. 24.  About the only
bright spot was this rookie, Warner, who came up late in June
and in two weeks had the whole country talking about him.  He
wasn't even twenty yet, but he covered right field like a motor-cycle
cop and at bat he took a cut at the ball like nothing you've seen
since DiMag started slowing up.

It goes without saying the fans went for him in a big way.  But
Nitwitz went off the deep end like I never seen anybody go about
a ballplayer.  You'd of thought the kid was his long-lost son or
something.  Warner had had only one season of pro ball, in the
Coast League, and outside of that nobody knew much about him.
Trust Nitwitz to get the dope though.  The second or third day
Warner was in the line-up he shows up with a spiel that sounds
like the Life of Napoleon.

"I got a little idea," Mac said, "this squirt is a sucker for a high
outside ball.  Wait till the pitchers get wise to him."

"He'll learn," Nitwitz came back.  "He's a smart kid."

"There ain't no smart ball players," said Mac.

"There used to be," the Commodore put in.  "Remember
Willie Keeler?  There was the smartest ball player ever lived."

"There ain't no smart ballplayers," Mac went on, "because they
pay 'em too much dough.  They all get swelled heads."

"This Warner will be great," Nitwitz said.

"Wait an' see," Mac told him.

Well, most of July the little guy was in the driver's seat all right.
Warner kept on pounding the ball, and he kept the Yanks right
up there in the race.  He swung lefty, and by the time he'd played
in twenty games he'd pulled seven or eight balls into the bleachers;
it got so you could sort of feel all of Section 14 tightening up
whenever he came to bat, thinking maybe this time a homer was
coming out to us.

I guess about half Warner's homers landed in 14, but none of
them right around where our gang sat.  Not that most of us cared
one way or the other; if you did get a ball you couldn't sell it for
anything, and I guess all of us were past the age where we'd go
running around after the game for Joe Blow to sign his name on it.
All of us, that is, except Nitwitz.  He'd told us once he'd never
got a ball in all the years he'd been coming to the games, and all
you had to do was look at him whenever Warner came to bat to
know he'd of given his right eye, plus a couple of other pieces of
equipment, for a ball to come sailing right into his pocket.

And I'll be damned if one day it didn't happen--almost.

It was a day the Yanks were playing the Tigers, and they were
two runs behind going into the last of the eighth.  DiMaggio
grounded out to start the innings, but Berra walked and Bauer
singled him around to third.  Then Warner comes up swinging
his big yellow bat.  The Yanks needed that ball game pretty bad,
and every fan in the stands knew it was now or never.

"Sock it, boy!  Sock it!" yells Nitwitz, hopping up and down
in his seat.

"He's been golfin' 'em to-day," McPopoff says, "he's gonna
pop up."

Well, the pitcher got the count to three and one and then he
sends the cripple in there, low and just a little inside.  Warner
swung, and you could tell the second the wood met the ball that
that old hunk of horse was going on a long sea-voyage.  We were
all on our feet before the ball passed the infield, and then we were
standing with our necks bent and watched the ball come sailing
out, white and neat against the sky.  All of a sudden I saw it was
coming smack at us.

"I got it!" Nitwitz was screaming, and even with the crowd
roaring like the zoo at lunch his voice was the only thing I could
hear.  The ball was coming down, seeming to float slow and easy
at first, and then getting bigger and picking up speed till it was
coming like a big white bullet.  Nitwitz was standing on his seat
with his arms out and--damned if I know how I got all these
things in no seconds flat--I could see his hands were shaking.
Then the ball landed.  It hit one of Nitwitz's fingers first; then it
shot past his nose, missing his glasses by a whisker, and landed
with a thud like a sick bass drum smack against his chest.  The
force of it knocked him right off his seat into the aisle behind.
The ball rolled down easy in front of where he'd been, and all
McPopoff had to do was pick it up and put it in his pocket.

I thought for a minute Nitwitz had been hurt bad, but he
picked himself up all right, and the only thing the matter seemed
to be the finger that had got smacked.  He sat down again and was
looking at it and pulling it around a little, when all at once I
noticed a black stain spreading on the front of his coat.  I was
just going to call his attention to it when he looked down and saw
it himself.  Then while I watched he reached in his pocket and
picked out, one at a time, three black squashy hunks of his
gold fountain pen.  He held the pieces in his hand and sat there
looking at them, and the ink spread out over his fingers and
dripped down on his pants, and off of a sudden--Jesus Christ--I
felt like I was watching a guy bleeding to death.  I turned back to
the game quick, just in time to see Coleman line out a double to
left.

A few days after that the Yanks went on the road again.  They
took two out of three in St. Louis, but only broke even in Cleveland
and took lickings in Detroit and Chi.  DiMag and Berra were
hitting fine, but the pitchers were still dizzy, and, worst of all,
this kid Warner, who'd been keeping them in the race almost
single-handed during June and July, went into a slump.  By the
time the boys got home again the Red Sox were breathing on their
necks like Boris Karloff.

I was up to the homecoming game of course, and there's
McPopoff, just like I knew he'd be, having one hell of a time.  He
had fifty reasons why the Yanks were going to finish in the second
division and another fifty why Warner ought to go home and take
care of his mother.  Poor Nitwitz looked like something carved on
a hearse, but he was still scribbling away on his little pieces of
paper--only now it was with a stub of yellow pencil--and every
so often he'd pop out with some figures proving that the Yanks
generally and Warner especially were going to be okay.  But Mac
seemed to be the guy that had the dope.  Less than a week after
they got back the Yanks had moved out of first place and the Red
Sox had moved in.

I don't know what was going on in the dugouts during that
August, but the boys would of had to be crowning one another
with bats to top the show we put on in Section 14.  From the first
inning to the ninth the gang was howling and cheering and booing.
McPopoff had picked up one of those little megaphones like
crooners used to have, and when he really let loose I used to think
he was going to blow the centre-fielder clear to second base.  The
Commodore announced every day that modern baseball had
sunk so low he was giving it up in favour of croquet, but next
afternoon he was always back working away at that cesspool
under his seat.

As for Nitwitz--well I never saw anything like Nitwitz in my
life.  He still didn't holler much, and when he did it was like a
tongue-tied chipmunk alongside Mac and his megaphone.  But
even while he was sitting there quiet you could tell by his face it
was like thunder and lightning howling around inside him.  "Hit
it hit it hit it hit it hit it," I could sometimes hear him babbling
when a player'd come up to bat, and then the batter likely as not
would pop up to the infield and he'd slump back breathing hard
and his knuckles were white where his hands squeezed his knees.
You'd of thought every man in the damn club was his own son
and the penalty for not getting a hit was being boiled in oil before
breakfast.

But where the poor goof had his worst time was with Warner.
After his first-mouth splurge the kid couldn't hit the size of his
collar and after a while he even began messing them up in the
field.  Nitwitz still hung on though.  For his money the kid was
still the greatest thing that happened to baseball since Abner
Doubleday, and every day he was going to snap out of it or really
hit his stride or knock four home runs or something.

The last week in August the Red Sox came to town for what
the writer fellows call the "crucial series."  There was still a
month of the season left, but every fan in the country knew these
were the pay-off games and that whatever outfit came out on top
would be the one that would be playing for the World's Championship
in October.  The first game it was going to be Raschi
against Parnell, and the general feeling was it'd be the tip-off on
what was going to happen.  A hell of a crowd turned out of course,
but most of the Section 14 bunch showed up early and got their
regular seats.

I remember it was one of the hottest days of the summer, and
the bleachers looked like a nudist colony, only without the dames.
But once things started I'll bet there wasn't a fan in the place
knew whether he was in Darkest Africa or the North Pole, or
anything else except that he was looking at just about the tightest
ball game he'd ever seen in his life.  The Sox got a run in the
first on hits by Williams and Stephens.  Woodling tied it up in
the second, putting one in the stands with nobody on.  After that
it was just goose-eggs, but brother, don't let anybody tell you those
eggs were empty.

In the Sox half of the eighth the break came.  The first batter
made out, and Williams drew a walk.  Raschi bore down hard
and got Stephens on a foul to the catcher, but Dropo smacked the
ball on a line between first and second.  It should of been a single
with Williams getting no further than second, or maybe third.
Then suddenly the crowd howled.  Warner, in right field, had
let the ball go through his legs and a second later it had rolled
clear to the fence not six feet from where we were sitting.  By
the time Warner caught up with it and got it back to the infield
Williams had scored and Dropo was on the third.  Raschi struck out
the next batter to set down the side, but that one run looked as
big as Radio City.

I know now all right why the players call the fans "wolves."
I've heard plenty of hooting and razzing in my day at the ball
games, but I never heard anything in my life like the going over
that mob gave this poor Warner kid.  They howled at him all the
way into the dugout when the inning was over, and you can bet
ten to one McPopoff was howling the loudest of all.

"Oh you bum!" he foghorned through his megaphone.  "Oh
you bush-league punk!"  After a minute he turns around to
Nitwitz and his big sweaty face was so red I couldn't of been
surprised if it had all of a sudden just busted wide open.  "How
you like it, Nitwitz?" he hollered.  "How you like your boy
wonder now?"

I looked at Nitwitz and his face was so white you'd of thought
it was painted on.  He was leaning way forward, holding on to
both knees with his hands, and he was saying softly, "We'll
get them, we'll get them, we'll get them," over and over again.
Then I heard the Commodore telling somebody: "If they
only had real pinch hitters these days.  A guy like old Moose
McCormick."

The Yanks got a man on in their half of the eighth, but couldn't
do anything about it, and in the first of the ninth the Sox went
down in order.  Then the Yanks came up for their last licks.

The next ten minutes were straight out of Dick Tracy.  Rizzuto
worked the count to three and two and then flied out to centre.
The crowd groaned, but stopped groaning quick when McDougald
singled sharp over second.  The great DiMag was up, and there
were fifty thousand people practically on their knees begging for
a homer.  Old Joe didn't quite have a homer in him any more,
but he pumped the ball off the wall in left field for a double and
McDougald tore around to third ahead of him.  In the stands it
was like field day at the asylum.  O'Neill came out to the mound
and talked with Parnell, and then Mel threw four intentional
wide ones to Berra and walked him.  Then he went to work on
Woodling, and after fifty-seven varieties of fouls got him to lift a
pop to first.  Fifty thousand people let out a long breath and then
held it again.

Two down.  Three men on both bases.  One run to tie and two
to win.  No, it wasn't Superman coming up to the plate.  It was
just a guy called Warner.  Most of the weisenheimers had figured
Stengel would yank the kid and put in a pinch hitter if his turn
came in a clutch, but evidently Case had decided to let him do
or die.  Maybe he figured the guy was so sore about that error
he'd knock the ball over the Triborough Bridge.

"Pinch hitter!  Pinch hitter!"  McPopoff was howling.
"Whadda you bums doin'--throwin' the game?"  And then a
Warner took his stance at the plate, "Three out!"

I sort of had a feeling something was missing, and suddenly
I knew what it was.  Nitwitz should of been standing on his seat
screaming.  But he wasn't.  I shot a look over him quick, and
there he was sitting bent over just like he was before, only now
he was holding an empty pop bottle in both his hands, sort of
like he was using it to pray with.  "We got to do it.  We got to
do it," he was saying over and over.  His face was the calmest of
any I could see around me, but I get a queer feeling even now
when I think what must of been going on in that little squirt's
head and heart.

"We got to do it..."

Out there on the mound Parnell was taking what seemed like
half an hour before each pitch.  His first was a strike that Warner
swung at and missed.

"Oh, you punk!" roared McPopoff.

The next two pitches were balls, the first high, the second low
and inside.  Then Parnell came through with a second strike that
left Warner with his bat on his shoulder.

"You punk!"  Mac howled.  "You lousy punk!"

Then suddenly there was almost quiet.  Out of it I heard the
Commodore talking to the guy next to him.  "I seen 'em come, I
seen 'em go," he was saying.  "Sooner or later they're all punks."
Then he hawked and let loose with a good one.

Parnell threw a third ball.

I guess you could get fifty thousand different stories about what
happened after that.  All I can do is tell it the way I saw it.  Parnell
shifted around on the mound and fiddled with the rosin bag,
and then he took his windup and let it fly.  All the runners started
with the pitch.  Right away, before it had hardly left his hand,
I knew it was going to be a wide one.  It came high and outside,
so high the catcher had to jump for it.  Ball four!  The score
was ... Christ, Warner had swung at it!  He'd swung at a
ball he couldn't of reached with radar and he'd missed it by
a foot.

For a second the crowd just sat there.  It didn't move.  It didn't
make a sound.  I found myself looking at Nitwitz.  He didn't
move either.  He was still sitting bent over holding the pop bottle,
and I had the sudden idea maybe he was going to vomit.  Then
before you knew it every man-jack in the stands was on his feet
yelling and booing and shouting at each other, and I was on my
feet too, and I was yelling.

At the same time I heard somebody laughing.  It was the loudest
laughing I ever heard.  It was so loud it boomed right over the
noise of fifty thousand gibbering lunatics.  McPopoff's head was
thrown back, and he was laughing so hard all the beef in his body
was shaking and little tears were running down his big red face....
I started to yell "Look out!" but it was too late.  Nitwitz was
standing now and leaning forward, and then the bottle came
down, and suddenly Mac wasn't laughing any more.  The glass
tinkled down under the seats.  And now Mac's face wasn't red any
more, but white, and then it wasn't white, but thick red-black
and dripping down on to the stone where he was lying.  Behind
him Nitwitz was sitting again, with his hands over his face.

They got good cops at the Stadium.  Mac and Nitwitz were out
of there almost before the players had left the field.  I don't think
they even noticed the ruckus over in the main stands.


