PRESUMED LOST

IN THE fall of 1941, when he was a senior at Iowa State College,
Martin Keep was twenty-two years old, six feet three inches tall
and weighed 195 pounds stripped, on the field-house scales.  He
had made Junior Phi Beta Kappa the previous year and was the
best defensive end the State football team had in twenty years.

On the third Saturday of the season Keep's savagely accurate
tackling was hailed by the Des Moines and Omaha sports writers
as the outstanding feature of State's ten-to-seven victory over a
favoured Grinnell team.  The following Monday afternoon he
called on the State coach at his office in the field house and announced
that he was going to turn in his uniform.

The coach argued for an hour with no result.

"I'm sorry, but I just don't like football," Martin said.

"You've taken quite a while finding that out, haven't you?"

"Yes, I guess I have.  I've been doing a lot of thinking about it."

"And just what is it you've decided you don't like about it?
Practice?  Training?"

"No," Martin said.  "It's nothing like that.  It's that I don't
like the way I feel when I play football."

"The way you feel?"

"Not physically.  Inside of me."

The coach studied the big towheaded young man who sat looking
at him from across the desk with earnest grey eyes.  Either they
were illiterates and flunking out, he was thinking sadly, or they
were Phi Betes and screwballs.

"Look, Marty," he said.  "You're worrying about that Coleman,
aren't you?"

Martin said nothing.

"That Grinnell wingback.  The one you----"

"The one whose pelvis I smashed."

"You didn't smash it on purpose," the older man said.  "You
couldn't help it.  All you did was make a hard clean tackle."

Martin got up.  "There's no use talking about it," he said.

"You're letting the school down badly, you know."

"Yes, I suppose I am.  I'm sorry."

There was a moment's silence.

"Well, think it over," the coach said.

"I'm sorry, but my mind's made up."


Martin Keep's mind was also made up on the spring morning,
six months later, when he stood before three middle-aged men in
a sparsely furnished office in the National Bank Building in
Ottumwa.

"You're not a Quaker?" the man in the middle was asking
him.

"No, sir."

"Or a Jehovah's Witness or anything like that?"

"No sir."

Frank Detzel, attorney and chairman of the Wapello County
Draft Board, looked out the window and tapped a pencil gently
against his nails.

"Why are you trying to make things so difficult for yourself?"
he asked.

"I'm not trying to make things difficult for anyone, sir," Martin
answered.  "I'm only doing what I feel I have to do."

"What you _have_ to do?"

"Yes.  What my conscience and convictions dictate."

"And you put these convictions of yours before your duty to
your country.  Is that it?"

The young man was silent.

"Answer me, please."

"Yes," Martin said.

The bald owl-faced man on Mr. Detzel's right had been staring
at him with cold level eyes.  "You're the man who walked out on
the State team last fall, aren't you?" he said suddenly.

"I resigned from the team, yes."

"Well, you're consistent, at least."

"How do you mean, sir?"

"Consistently yellow."

Mr. Detzel put a hand lightly on his colleague's arm.  Martin's
lips and knuckles went white, but he said nothing.

"You have nothing more to say for yourself?" the chairman
asked at last.

"I don't believe in war," Martin said.  "I don't believe in violence."

"That's all?"

"Yes, sir."

Mr. Detzel looked out the window again and tapped his nails
slowly with his pencil.  When he turned back to Martin there
was a tired, strained look about his eyes.

"This is a terrible mistake you're making, son," he said softly.
"Think it over for a day or two."

Martin took a deep breath and looked at him squarely, "I'm
sorry, sir," he said, "but my mind is made up."


It was worst of all with his father.

Theodore Keep, vice-president and general manager of the
Midland Thresher and Farm Machinery Company, heard his son
through without saying a word.  Then he rose quietly and started
to leave the room.

"Aren't you going to say anything, Dad?" Martin asked.

"What's there to say, son?"

"You understand why I'm doing this?"

"No."  The older man shook his head slowly.  "No, Martin,
I don't understand."  He turned to go.

"Do you want me to--to clear out?" Martin asked.

"Out of the house, you mean?"  His father paused at the door.
"No, I don't see why that should be necessary.  As a matter of
fact," he added, "I'll probably be leaving in a few weeks myself."

"Leaving?  For where?"

"Washington.  My old company commander from France is
down there;  Colonel in the Procurement Division.  He's said
there might be something for me.  It would only be a desk job, of
course, but----"  Mr. Keep hesitated a moment and smiled thinly.

"Well, it's up to somebody in the family, isn't it?"

Martin's big hands were opening and closing over the arm of
his chair.  "How about the plant?" he asked presently.

"The plant will get along," his father said.

"But Mother----"

"Your mother managed without me in the last war.  She'll
manage again."

The father stared at his son, and the son stared at the faded
brown patterns of the rug.

"Well----" Mr. Keep said.

He opened the door, and a shaft of sunlight from the hall fell
across his face.  Looking up, Martin saw that his eyes were full
of tears.


That was late in April.  Two weeks later Martin Keep left
Ottumwa for New York.  Three weeks after that he left the
United States for Egypt, as a volunteer ambulance driver in the
American Field Service.

They were torpedoed off Bermuda and returned to the United
States.  Then they sailed again and this time reached Cape Town.
At Cape Town they lived for three weeks in a British transit camp,
awaiting trans-shipment.  At Suez there were more than a hundred
letters waiting for the six members of the unit.  Three of them
were for Martin: two from his mother, one from _Life_ thanking
him for his subscription.

Finally, on an oven-hot morning in mid-August, they reported
to the Field Service office in British Middle East Headquarters in
Cairo.  The officer in charge was a tall soft-spoken New Englander
with greying hair and a pipe.  His name was Stokes, and he had
been an assistant professor of Romance Languages at Harvard.
First he welcomed them as a group and gave them a few instructions
and suggestions.  Then he asked them to come into his office
individually.

"You're a conscientious objector, Mr. Keep?" he said.

Martin's hands tightened against his sides.  "Yes," he answered.
"I am."

But the other merely nodded.  "We have quite a few C.O.'s in
the Service," he said pleasantly.  "Quakers and--well, others.
Most of them have done a damn' fine job."

"I promise you I'm going to do my best, sir," Martin said.

"I'm sure you are."  A quizzical expression came into Stokes'
face.  "I suppose you're anxious to get up to the front as soon as
possible?"

"Well--yes, I am."

"I thought so."  Martin looked at him inquiringly.  "Most
C.O.'s are, you know."

"You mean----"

"I mean that most of you have had a pretty rough time back
home before you come over here.  You're anxious to prove
yourselves."

Martin looked at him steadily.  "I'm not afraid.  I'm not a
coward, sir, if that's what you're trying to say."

"No."  Stokes shook his head thoughtfully.  "Cowardice and
courage haven't anything to do with it.  It's a question of a man's
feeling--well--sure of himself.  Sure of his convictions."

"I'm sure of mine," Martin said.

"Good."  The older man rose and extended his hand, smiling.
"Remember, there are only three things the Service demands of
its men: drive your ambulance carefully; maintain it well; take
care of your wounded.  Everything else is your own affair.  That's
all.  Good luck."

"Thank you, sir," Martin said.

They sent him first to a training centre near Port Said; then to
Baalbeck, in Syria, where for six weeks he was attached to a regiment
of South African garrison troops.  Early in October he was
transferred to the Western Desert.  The mobile field-dressing
station to which he reported was located on an eroded gravel plain
about a mile south of the abandoned railroad siding and dilapidated
brick warehouse that were marked on the maps as El
Alamein.


There was the sky.  There was the sand.  There was the far faint
line of the horizon where they met and the huge sun creeping
across the blue ocean of the air.  At night there were the stars,
diamond-sharp and teeming, and the swelling crescent of the
moon.  Each time the moon appeared it was a little fuller, a little
brighter.

Between earth and sky was the silence and emptiness of the
centuries--and two armies of half a million men.  But in those
hushed days of mid-October they were armies of specks and
shadows.  A long column of lorries crawled across the desert floor
like a sluggish yellow snake, and disappeared.  A plane, quick and
glistening, cut through the sky and was gone.  Miles away to the
north or south a gun boomed once or twice and was still.  A
sand-storm swooped over the horizon, lingered briefly in a vicious
little whirl of wind and grit, then scudded away.  Tiny sounds
and movements came and passed, and when they were gone sand
and sky were all the emptier for their passing.

In a thousand lagers and emplacements in the desert men went
about their work and lived their lives.  They greased the breeches
of their guns and the spring shackles of their cars.  They sat smoking
beside their lorries and slit trenches and watched the long yellow
convoys snake across the distance.  They gathered in little knots,
listening, while their officers spoke to them in quiet unhurried
voices.  They stood in mess lines and kicked soccer balls and
wrote home to their wives and mothers that they had gained five
pounds and ridden a camel around the Sphinx.  They watched
the moon swell, night by night, and squinted up into the emptiness
between earth and sky.

For two weeks that emptiness hung suspended above them.  It
seemed to live and grow, to expand and throb.  It became an indescribable
tension, gathering itself into a gigantic node of force.
Men waited.  Desert and sky waited.  The emptiness swelled and
trembled....

At twenty-eight minutes to eleven on the night of October
twenty-third it exploded.


Sitting on the rim of a slit trench, Martin Keep watched the
darkness dissolve into flaming shreds.  In a great semi-circle to the
south and west the horizon shook and shimmered in what appeared
to be an endlessly protracted charge of sheet lightning.
Out of this sea of light, bursts of still greater intensity flared upward,
sharp-edged and gigantic.  A dull pervading roar filled the air,
a sound so vast and deep that it seemed scarcely sound at all, but
a seismic wave moving within the earth itself.  Through it and
above it came the concussions of single gun bursts.  A shuddering
_roomph;_  the scream of a projectile shredding the air; a second
_roomph._  A flight of planes throbbed invisibly overhead, and was
gone.  Where the moon had been was a heaving grey sea of
smoke, streaked by the thin red lines of signal flares.

Martin sat quite still, his hands cupped over his drawn-up knees.
He was not afraid; he was quite sure of that.  Stomach, nerves,
brain: they were all well under control; he could depend on them.
And yet something he realised, was happening to him.  Inside.
Deep inside.  He could scarcely distinguish the pounding of the
battle from the pounding of his blood.

And then a strange thing happened.  In a remote corner of his
mind a feeling was slowly taking shape: the feeling, then the
certain conviction, that he had experienced this same thing before.
It was impossible, of course.  Impossible--and yet so.  It was like
... His mind groped with the thought, rejected it, groped again.

Then he had it.  It was like he used to feel back in the locker
room at the field house.  The roar of the crowd was filtering
through from the packed stadium.  In five minutes now they
would be trotting out on the field....

"Keep!  Marty Keep!"

"Here!" he called back.

A figure materialised out of the darkness and squatted beside
him.  It was Fred Dean, his section corporal.

"The first wounded have come in," Dean said.  "They're
ready to evacuate them."

Martin jumped to his feet.

"You're not up, actually," the other went on.  "But Jackson
and Dietz are a little--well--windy, and I thought you might----"

"I'm ready," Martin said.

"Sure you want to?"

"Sure I'm sure."

"Then----"

Without sound or warning the world about them sprang into
brilliant light.  It was as if a powerful incandescent bulb had been
snapped on in a pitch-black room.  Tents and ambulances and
gleaming shell-rutted sand rushed up out of nothingness into
Martin's eyes.  He saw the twisting purple veins under the dust
on Dean's hand and a fat black beetle scuttling along the rim of
the slit trench.  Overhead the parachute-flare drifted slowly
earthward--a blinding calcium star.

Dean put his hand on Martin's arm, and the two men stood
motionless, listening.  In the blackness above the flare there was
a faint purring hum.

"He'll be back," Dean said.

Again they were silent, listening.  The desert spread around
them in a green macabre light, empty and still, like a deserted
stage.

"Hear him?" Dean whispered.

The humming was there again.

"He's coming down on his target," Dean said.

The humming was louder.

"He's coming," Dean said.

The humming was now a roar.  Then, through it, came the
other sound, the thin sibilant whine.

"Down!" Dean yelled.

There was the whine swelling into a screech.  There was the
cool, faintly damp earth of the trench against Martin's forehead
and in his eyes and teeth.  Then whine, trench, Dean, everything
was blotted out in three monstrous paroxysms.  The deep earth
shuddered.  Martin felt himself hurled against the trench wall,
then back again towards its centre, so that his arms and legs were
convulsively entangled with Dean's.  A soft flow of sand was
drifting down from above upon the back of his neck.

Then it was over.  The flare was gone.  The explosions were
gone.  The two men stood beside the trench, spitting dirt.  A
hundred yards to the north a film of smoke, white as a bride's veil,
hung motionless in the darkness.  Somewhere a voice was cursing
softly.

Martin breathed deeply and his big hands opened and closed.
"I'd better get going," he said.


For ten days Martin Keep drove his ambulance in the Battle
of Alamein.  From regimental aid post to dressing station.  From
dressing station to field hospital.  Across empty desolate gravel-
flats.  Through tortuous wadis in which an endless procession of
tanks and guns and lorries crept nose to tail.  Under the bright
wings of the ranging planes.  Between the long white tapes of the
mine-fields.

He carried men with sprained ankles and men with their intestines
hanging to their knees.  He poured sulfanilamide and pressed
field dressings into gaping caves of flesh.  He gave his last crumpled
cigarette to a major-general and was given a pack of razor blades
by a New Zealand gunner.  He drove a car full of Italian prisoners
who sang _Santa Lucia_ and asked about relatives in San Francisco.
He drove at three miles an hour across ten miles of boulders and
camel thorn while a legless Cockney in the upper left stretcher-rack
pleaded with him to shoot him.

He did not grow tired.  His eyes were red and slitted, and his
cheekbones stood out prominently in the ochreish mask of his face.
But he did not want to sleep.  The rumbling of the guns and the
flashing sky seemed to have almost become a part of him, to have
entered into him and imbued him with their own monstrous
vitality.  He drove fourteen hours a day.  Sixteen.  Twenty.
Beneath the caked brown skin of his hands his knuckles showed
white as they gripped the wheel.

On the eleventh day of the battle the dressing station moved
twelve miles to the west.  The next day it moved five miles south.
On the third it moved west again.  They were now just behind the
very front line, wedged between a motorised infantry regiment
and a squadron of tanks.  That night it seemed as if the very fabric
of the earth would crumble under the fury of the guns.

At dawn the next day a battery of 88's behind a distant ridge
got the range of the infantry.  All morning long they were picking
up men with no arms, no legs, no faces.  In the afternoon the
Stukas came over.  The next morning they came again.

Word trickled along the grapevine that the final phase of the
battle was about to begin.  Two-thirds of the Italians had been
cut off down to the south and were being rounded up by the tens
of thousands.  The Germans had massed their armour in a tight
bristling crescent between El Daba and Fuka Pass.  Once that
final kernel of resistance was cracked, the Battle of Alamein would
be over.

The infantry regiment sent over a request for an ambulance to
replace one of their own that had been blown up.  Martin trudged
across the sand to Fred Dean's dugout and found him alone with
a bottle of beer.

"I'd like to be it, Fred," he told him.

"They'll be going in, you know."

"Yes, I know."

Dean took a meditative swallow of beer and handed the bottle
to Martin.  "You're one hell of a fire-eater for a conchie, aren't
you?" he said.

"It's not a question of fire-eating.  I just want to do my job."

"You don't think you've been doing a job these past two weeks?"

"Nothing that some kid or woman couldn't be doing just as
well."  Martin had not raised the bottle to his lips.  He sat motionless,
staring at Dean with grey level eyes.  "I want to be where
things are happening, Fred.  Where the war's really being fought."

Dean looked at him curiously.  "I thought you hated war," he
said.

"Yes.  I hate war.  God knows I hate it."  Martin was silent
a moment, and when he spoke again his voice was very low and
even.  "But you go on and on, Fred.  You feel the earth exploding
all around you and the sky falling apart over your head.  You've
got blood on your hands and blood in your eyes and mouth.  You
see men killing and dying and killing and dying.  That's all that's
left in the whole damned world now: killing and dying."

His voice had not risen and he had not moved.  His big hand,
holding the forgotten beer bottle, was spread around it so that
finger and thumb met.

"God almighty," he said.  "A man can't just go on forever
pumping up tires and shifting gears.  A man's got to _do_ something."

There was a small splintering sound, and the beer bottle fell to
the ground in fragments.  Martin looked down at the dark red
stain that welled suddenly in the palm of his hand.  Then he
looked at Dean.

"A man's got to _do_ something, Fred," he said quietly.


The regiment moved two miles to the west.  Then it moved
back again.  Then it moved three miles south.  The ridge with the
88's was to the north-west of them now--a notched rampart of
ancient limestone against the blue brilliance of the sky.

They waited for a morning and an afternoon.  Then, towards
dusk, the regimental medical officer called the ambulance drivers
together.  They were going in at five the next morning, he said.
Their objectives were the machine-gun emplacements protecting
the right flank of the 88's.  The ambulances would follow directly
after the first troops, fanning out in a two-mile arc based on the
medical truck in the centre.  He went on in his quiet clipped voice,
explaining the details of time, position, route.  It was almost dark
when he finished.  The men ate supper silently, smoked their
cigarettes and pipes, and wrapped themselves in their blanket rolls
under the stars.

When Martin awoke it was to the sound of hellfire.  Desultory
at first, it rapidly built into a solid roaring that tore the night to
shreds.  A red Very light shot up from the darkness to the north.
Then a figure was bending over him and a hand touching his
shoulder.

"All right", he murmured.  "I'm awake."

The moon was down now, and it was very cold.  The men
crowded around the field kitchen, shapeless and faceless, holding
out their tin cups.  Martin gulped his tea standing up, holding his
cup with both hands to warm them.  The tea went down sweet
and scalding.  It seemed to be flowing though his veins and
arteries, like blood.  While they stood there drinking, the artillery
fire ceased and the desert grew very still.

Martin went to his ambulance and revved up the motor.  Around
him in the darkness he could hear other motors coughing and
humming softly.  Presently four shadowy figures approached
across the sand.

"Number fourteen?" a voice asked.

"Yes," Martin said.

"We're the stretcher-bearers."

The four men got into the back of the ambulance.  Someone
passed cigarettes around.  They waited.

Perhaps ten minutes later there was the thin distant sound of
a whistle.  The night around them became a blur of moving
shapes.  Martin waited until the shape a hundred yards on his
right began to move; then he slipped the clutch in, swung the
ambulance around, and followed it.

They crept along through the darkness.  The shape ahead of
them stopped, and Martin stopped too.  Then they crept on again.
They came to a stretch of camel thorn, and the ambulance lurched
drunkenly as it nosed its way among the tufted hummocks.  Then
they were out on a gravel plain, with small stones scrunching
beneath the wheels.  The sky was still an opaque black, and thick
with stars, but it seemed to Martin, his eyes straining through the
windshield, that he could see the outline of the car in front a
little more clearly than before.  Ahead and to the left the ridge
showed as a faint grey streak against the night.  The dawn was
coming.

They stopped again and waited.  There was a shadowy movement
around the vehicle ahead, and Martin saw that it was a squat
three-ton lorry, filled with troops.  The men were climbing down
from it and fanning out silently into the darkness on either side.
A moment later there was the sound of an approaching motorcycle.
A dispatch rider pulled up alongside.

"Ambulance to stay here," he announced.  "Stretcher-bearers
out.  Follow the last range of infantry at two hundred yards."  The
motor-cycle roared away.  Martin sat rigidly upright in his seat,
his hands opening and closing on the wheel.

The stretcher-bearers got out and pulled two stretchers after
them.  Then one of them began to cough.  He put down his end
of the stretcher and leaned against the side of the ambulance and
retched.  Finally he vomited.  Two of his companions had already
disappeared into the darkness.  The other stood by uneasily, holding
his end of the stretcher.

"Let's go, chum," he said, gently.  "We'll be losing 'em."

The sick man drew a few gasping breaths, picked up his end
of the stretcher and started off.  But he had gone only a few steps
when he stopped and vomited again.  The next instant Martin
was out on the sand and beside him.

"Stay here," he told him.

The man looked at him uncomprehendingly.  His face, in the
faint light, was grey and beaded with sweat.

"You're sick," Martin said.  "Stay in the ambulance.  I'll take
your place."

The man tried to speak, but was convulsed by another fit of
retching.  Martin picked up his end of the stretcher.

"Let's go," he said.

The other stretcher-bearer looked at him for a moment in
indecision.  Then he nodded briefly and they started off.

For perhaps fifteen minutes they moved forward over a corrugated
plain of gravel and sand.  Then Martin felt the ground
begin to rise under his feet.  It was lighter now; the real dawn had
come; and in the twilight ahead he could discern the figures of
other moving men.  The ridge was there too.  As the darkness
drained away, its still, desolate slope seemed to be moving towards
them through a grey sea of air.

Suddenly there was the boom of gunfire off to the north.  It
seemed to come from very far away, hollow and vibrating in the
stillness.  Martin glanced at his watch.  It was five-twenty; the
tanks over to the north were going in after the 88's.  But the ridge
before them remained soundless and motionless, sloping gently
upward to an empty sky.

Then it came.

He saw the flashes first--a dozen sharp tiny sparks quivering
against the desolation of the hillside.  Then he heard the scream
of the bullets and, still later, the nervous metallic skitter of the
machine-guns.

"Bloody hell," the soldier at the other end of the stretcher
muttered.  "Bloody hell."

The scattered men ahead began to run.  They ran in short
violent zigzags, head down, legs weaving.  They threw themselves
flat, got up again, ran again.  Hoarse unintelligible shouts arose.
Through it, in unbroken rhythm, came the implacable pank-pank-
pank of the machine guns.

"Bloody hell!" the soldier shouted.  He kept shouting it over
and over.

Now they were running too.  They veered off to the right.  Then
they flattened, hugging jagged stones to their chests.  Then they
veered left.  Martin felt the crunch of pebbles beneath his thrusting
feet.  He felt his hands, tight and hot, on the rounded handles
of the stretcher, and his lungs sucking in and expelling the air in
great sharp gasps.  He pushed the stretcher forward against his
companion's rump.  He wanted to run faster.  He wanted to yell.
Or was he already yelling?  This was the way it was, he thought
fiercely.  This was the way it had always been.  The thunder of
cleats on the turf... the roar of ten thousand voices... the
enemy nearer, nearer....  There was a whining wailing screech.
Ten yards to his right a thin line of sand and gravel leapt up in a
tiny racing fountain.

The stretcher seemed to fall away in front of him and he went
down on it, struggling.  He jumped up and started forward again,
but the stretcher stuck.  Suddenly he saw that the other man was
no longer there.  He was sprawled a little to one side, his head
neatly placed on a pillow of camel thorn.  He had no nose and no
eyes.

"Fool!" Martin shouted at him.  "Goddamn fool!"

Then he was running again.  He sprinted, weaved, threw himself
down, hurled himself forward again.  He did not think about
what he was going to do next.  He simply did it.  It was as if he
had been doing it all his life.  He held one handle of the stretcher
in his left hand.  He could hear the other end scraping and bouncing
behind him over the rough ground.

A man looked up at him from the ground.  A dead man.  His
blue eyes seemed to be staring at Martin with mild surprise, and
his mouth was wide open, as if for a dentist's examination.  Beside
him lay his rifle, oiled and gleaming, the bayonet fixed.

"Fool!" Martin panted.  He stared at the corpse in red anger.
Then he swung his stretcher forward and flung it to the gravel.
"Here.  Make yourself comfortable."  He stooped, paused a
second, lurched forward again.  The rifle bobbed jerkily up and
down before him as he ran.

Suddenly he found himself among barbed wire and pit holes.
He floundered, went down, picked himself up, flung himself
through.  Another dead man lay in his path, and still another just
to the right.  There were dead men all around him.  The earth
was covered with dead men.  Under his feet one of them seemed
to be yelling, "Jesus Christ.  Christ Jesus.  Jesus Christ."  Over and
over again.

He was on a hillside now, among boulders and tufts of coarse
grass.  A grey billow of smoke came rolling down the slope, thick
and weaving against the thin greyness of the sky.  Through it came
a rain of bullets, but they were too high.  They shrieked over his
head like a solid swooping blade.  Behind the smoke were the
leaping yellow flashes of a machine-gun.  They were very close
now.

Suddenly there were men around him: living men, with rifles
in their hands.  They were spread out to the right and left of him,
hesitating, halting, in a thin wavering line.  He kept on running.
He gripped his rifle in both hands and yelled.  "Come on, you
bastards," someone was shouting.  "We're there!  We're there!"
They were running beside him now.  He heard their boots scraping
on the gravel and their hoarse unintelligible cries.  The sound of
the machine-gun rose in a tide around him.  He put his head
down, as if to bore his way with his helmet through the steel hail
of death.  Around him men were stumbling, falling.  Ten yards
to his right a tall loose-jointed soldier was bounding along in great
angular strides, his face contorted, bellowing, "Kill!  Kill!  Kill!"
Suddenly his face dissolved.  It was a man without a face running
forward, yelling.  They the yelling was gone, and the man was
gone.

The flashing of the machine-gun was no longer on the hillside.
It was inside his skull, between his eyes.  Then it was gone altogether,
and in its place was the grey looming figure of a man.
Something jerked in Martin's hands.  There was a flash and a roar
[ s.s.                        97                              G]
and the figure disappeared.  Behind him and on both sides of him
were other figures.  They seemed to be rising up out of the ground
like a wave.

The middle of a rifle was in front him, two feet from his face.
Then it disappeared.  He was under it.  There was an explosion
behind his head and he lunged forward.  He felt his bayonet drive
home.  His body swung heavily after it, as if pulled along by its
force.  The whole thing could not have taken more than a second,
but he felt it all; every minute detail of it was transmitted to him
along the steel and wood of his rifle.  The soft shredding of clothing.
The faint, delicate plop of bursting skin.  The swift plunge
through the entrails.  The tiny, remote grating as steel met spine.

The man would not fall.  His screaming face hung there and
his hands clawed at the barrel of the rifle.  On the fourth finger
of one hand was a plain gold ring.  Martin twisted, pulled, kicked
out savagely.  The face sank away.  Hands and ring sank away.
At the same instant something lunged at him from the side.  He
wheeled about, parried and lunged back.  Another face swam
before him, red and sweating, with bared teeth.  _"Schwein!"_ the
face hissed in his ear.

They grappled, went to the ground and rolled over and over in
a tangle of fists and rifles.  Martin jerked his rifle free.  He twisted,
saw his opening and brought the butt down.  There was a crunch
and a low grunting moan.  He brought the butt down again and
again.  Then he jumped up, shouting.  Everyone around him was
shouting.  Everyone was lunging, grappling, rending.

"Kill!  Kill!  Kill!" he screamed....

Then, suddenly, it was over.  Two Germans broke away and
went lurching down the slope.  Two spurts of fire leaped after
them and they went down.  There were no others left.  It was still.
The British stood leaning on their rifles, drawing in the cool
morning air in sobbing breaths.  Someone began to laugh softly.
Behind them, across the brown miles of the desert, the sun rose.
Its long rays streamed golden and horizontal upon the living and
the dead.

Two days later, in his headquarters in a half-demolished school-
house in Mersa Matruh, the colonel of a British motorised infantry
regiment composed his weekly report to his divisional general.

_Cited,_ he wrote: _Martin Beresford Keep, ambulance driver, American
Field Service.  For conspicuous gallantry and leadership, far beyond the
call of duty.  Award of Distinguished Service Order strongly recommended._

In his next weekly report, written in the regiment's encampment
on the outskirts of Tobruk, the colonel made a second entry.

_Missing,_ he wrote: _Martin Beresford Keep, ambulance driver,
American Field Service.  Volunteered to bring wounded out of emplacement
under direct shellfire.  Attempts by Cpl. Frederick Dean, A.F.S.,
to dissuade him were unsuccessful.  Was last seen headed directly towards
area of heaviest fire concentration.  Presumed lost._

