SOLDIER OF THE REALM

THEY FOLLOWED the brown river across the brown plains.  Some-
times it served as their highway, the ponies' hoofs clopping
patiently through the muddy shallows; sometimes they ranged
across the open land to north or south until it appeared only as
a faint glinting thread on the horizon.  But always they returned
to it, pressing steadily into the west.

  Their progress was slow.  The ponies they rode, Army-trained,
were, to be sure, capable of great speed over long distances, but
the mixed herds of horses and cattle which they drove before them
could be kept together and in motion only by the greatest vigi-
lance.  The six troopers swooped back and forth, shouting and
brandishing their lances.  The young officer in command barked
orders and swore under his breath.  Foraging expeditions were not
one of the enthusiasms.

  His narrow black eyes searched the plains ahead and presently
lighted on a cluster of tents on a slope of grassland near the river.
Signalling one of the troopers to join him, he galloped towards
them.  When he arrived, the people were already standing in front
of the tents--men, women and children, perhaps fifty in all.  They
watched him silently, with dull expressionless faces.

  "One horse, three head of cattle from each tent," commanded
the officer.

No one spoke or moved.

  "In the name of the Grand Army.  And make it quick!"

  The crowd hung together for an instant, hesitant and undecided;
then it began to disperse.  Only one man, a stubby crooked
fellow with a face like dried ox-hide, advanced supplicatingly to-
wards the horsemen.

  "But, masters," he began.  "My only mare is foaling and I do
not own any----"

  "If you don't own them, steal them."

  "But, masters----"

  The officer nodded to the trooper, who drew his long curved
sabre from his saddle thong and brought down its flat against the
upturned face.  The man fell to the ground, holding his broken
nose.

  "Two horses, four head of cattle," said the officer.

  Then, as always, ensued the interminable wait.  The troopers
did what they could to speed things along, shouting and prodding
with their lances, but the young officer had long ago realised that,
in these matters, true speed and efficiency were impossible.  You
could not make these loutish herdsmen understand things, any
more than you could the animals they tended.  A great army, a
great King and Protector had arisen on the plains, was welding a
thousand miles of scattered miserable tribes into a proud and con-
quering nation; yet the very people for whom it was being done
comprehended nothing, contributed nothing, until it was forced
from them at steel's point, and stared at the emissaries of progress
with sullen hostile eyes.  As the cattle and horses began assem-
bling, he could not help but note the contrast between his capable
disciplined troopers and the sluggish spiritless rabble.  The young
officer shook his head thoughtfully.  It would take a lot of doing,
no doubt of that, to whip these barbarians into shape where they
would be worthy of the empire they were receiving.  Sword and
spear were puny adversaries compared to the abysmal weakness
and slovenliness of the civilian mind.

  A sharp cry cut through his meditations, and he raised his eyes
to see the crooked one with the ox-hide face grovelling before a
nearby trooper.  Beside him stood a single sway-backed plug.

  "Twenty lashes," he snapped, mindful of duty.

  They made one more settlement that day, and four the next,
and three the next.  By this time their herd numbered some three
hundred horses and more than a thousand head of cattle and the
young officer was confident that they had done as well as any
foraging party that had been sent out.  If he got them all into the
great encampment without mishap he might even receive a citation
from his commander.

  To this pleasing thought was soon added another.  For the past
two or three days he had found himself gazing with rather more
than his accustomed interest at the country through which they
ranged.  There were still the same endless plains, and the river
between, but somehow they seemed different to him; disturbingly
familiar.  And presently he recognised what it was.  He had come
back, quite by accident, to the country where he had been born.
The rolling grassland over which he now was passing as a proud
officer of the Grand Army was the very same that he had roamed
once, years before, as a tattered starving ignorant herdboy.

  With this realisation, the dull routine of foraging took on a new
interest for him--almost an excitement.  In the tent-villages at
which they stopped he searched the brown heavy faces in the
crowds, and, although he saw none which he recognised, his
carriage was a little straighter and his heartbeat a little faster than
usual.  For here at last, before his eyes, was the living proof of
how far he had come since that long-gone day when the Grand
Army had first thundered across the land and he had run away
and joined it.  It was inconceivable now that he had actually been
one of them--these lumpish, cringing barbarians who did his
bidding and trembled at his every word.  He observed their ragged
homespun garments and, in contrast, his own uniform, splendid
with rawhide and fur and shining metal.  He noted their dull
hunger-pinched faces and his own, broad and ruddy with health.
And he compared the miserable poverty-ridden grubbing of their
lives with the adventure and power and vision that animated his
own.

  The young officer rode through the plains and villages of his
homeland with head held high; for he was a soldier of the realm.

  And then one evening, a prisoner was brought into his tent and
stood looking at him, instead of dropping his eyes, as did all the
others, and suddenly said, "Yanos, is it really you?"

  "Quiet, swine!" ordered the trooper who had brought him.
He turned to his superior.  "This one swears he has neither horse
nor cattle."

  But the officer had arisen and was studying the prisoner in the
flickering light of the dung-fire.  After a moment he signalled
for the trooper to go.  "Miklai----" he said.  "After all these
years, Miklai."  For a long while he stood silently looking at his
brother.

  It was the latter who spoke first.  "We had thought you long
since dead," he murmured.

  "Dead?  Scarcely."  The young officer could not wholly restrain
a smile.  "No, Miklai, on the contrary, I flatter myself that I have
come a little way in the world."

  "You have always been a raider?"

  "A soldier, brother."

  "A soldier....  And now an officer?"

  "Commissioned personally by the King-Protector, all homage
to his name."

  The other was silent.

  "Brother?"

  "All homage to his name," murmured Miklai.

  They sat by the dung-fire, and Yanos told briefly of his adven-
tures and achievements during the years since he had run away.
He spoke of campaigns and conquest, of the sacking of cities and
the great marches across the plains.

  "You have had an active life," said Miklai when he was done.

  Yanos nodded.  "Yes, brother, it has been active enough; but
that is not the important thing.  What is important is that it has
been a life with purpose."  He paused, searching for words.  How
could he explain to this ignorant herdsman (for he was only that,
brother or no brother) the great things that were happening in the
world and of which he had become a part?  "There is a new spirit
in the land, Miklai--a new fire and faith.  For centuries our people
have been scattered across the plains, and because they have been
scattered they have been miserable and weak.  But now that is
no longer so.  The King-Protector is making a nation of us.  He
has taught us oneness of mind and will and revealed to us the
strength and destiny of our race.  Already we have conquered
every enemy who has appeared before us.  For a thousand miles
to the south and east every city and tribe acknowledges our over-
lordship.  And now, at last, the greatest venture is at hand."  He
paused again and his dark eyes glistened in the firelight.  "Now
we go to the west!"

  "The west?"

  "Three days' ride to the north of here is the encampment of
the Grand Army.  There are gathered a hundred thousand horse-
men, led by the King-Protector himself.  When the foraging has
been done and all food and supplies assembled, we will march
westward."

  "What will you seek there?"

  Yanos looked at his brother curiously.  "What will we seek
there?  Why, room to live, to be sure.  A place in the sun."  He
brought his clenched fist down heavily on his knee.  "We have
lived too long on the leavings of the earth.  Now that we are
strong and united we will take what is rightfully ours."

  Miklai shook his head.  "There will bloodshed such as the
world has never seen."

  Yanos shrugged.  "It is in bloodshed that the strength of nations
is forged.  Besides, it is common knowledge that these western
people are soft and degenerate.  We will sweep over them as over
the grass of the plains."

  "And when you have conquered them--then what?"

  "Then what?"  Yanos stared for an instant; then he smiled.

  "I have done fairly well in the Army, brother, but I am not the
King-Protector, yet.  Suppose we let him worry about that.  I dare
say, though," he added as an afterthought, "we shall put them in
their place right enough."

  Miklai did not speak further, but sat gazing into the fire, and
Yanos realised that all he had been saying and endeavouring to
explain was far beyond the range of his brother's experience and
comprehension.  He was a herdsman, an oaf--nothing more.  The
concepts of civilisation--discipline and duty, nation and race--
were mere hollow words to his sluggish untutored mind.

  "And you, Miklai," he said, abruptly changing the subject, "you
have been here all these years?"

  The other nodded.

  "Still following the herds?"

  Miklai hesitated a moment before answering.  "Well, no--not
exactly.  You see----" He leaned forward suddenly and grasped
his brother's arm.  "I, too, Yanos, have been doing exciting
things."

  "Have you, now?" said Yanos.  Again he could scarcely hide
a smile.  "I'll bet you've gone and got yourself a woman, you
rascal."

  "I have had a wife for many years.  Two sons as well.  But that
is not what I mean."  He hesitated again, then spoke with an
eagerness that was almost pleading.  "Brother, come to my place
and I will show you."

  Yanos looked dubious.  "I am a busy man, Miklai."

  "Please, brother!  You will not regret it.  Only for to-night and
a bit of to-morrow."

  "Well----"  A miserable herdsman's tent was scarcely a fitting
night's lodge for an officer of the Grand Army, but, after
all, this man was his next of kin.  "All right," he said.  "I will
come."

  He called the trooper from outside and gave him his instructions.
Then he led the way from the tent.

  "Where is your horse?"

  "I have none," replied Miklai.

  Yanos looked at him sharply, but said nothing.  He ordered
two ponies saddled, and in a few moments they were riding swiftly
over the plains.  For a while they travelled in silence.  Then, sud-
denly, Miklai looked back and pointed.

  "Two troopers are following us."

  Yanos nodded.  "An officer of the Grand Army does not travel
alone," he explained.

  Thereafter they again rode without speaking, and the endless
carpet of grass unrolled before them under the evening light.
After perhaps fifteen minutes a smudge of smoke appeared on the
horizon and a few moments later, beneath it, the low outline of
a shelter.  Miklai gestured and nodded.

  When they had come within a hundred yards of the habitation
Yanos pulled up his horse.  He sat upright and motionless in the
saddle, staring.  Then he turned, puzzled to his brother.

  "But it is not a tent," he said.

  Miklai smiled, a little proudly.  "No, it is a house."

  "A house?  On the plains?"  Yanos could scarcely believe either
eyes or ears.  For upward of ten years he had roamed the length
and breadth of the land, but never had he seen, or thought to see,
such a sight as this.  In the towns and cities, to be sure, he had
known dwellings built of clay or stone.  Many a time, indeed, he
had feasted in the great banquet hall of the King-Protector, which
was said to be the noblest edifice on earth.  But a house in the
open land...  He stared back at Miklai, uncomprehendingly.

  "The walls are of packed earth," explained the latter.  "The
roof is woven of grass."

  "How does one move it?"

  "It cannot be moved."

  "But when the grazing land gives out?  When the herds go to
winter pastures?  Surely you cannot build such a thing three or
four times a year?"

  "No, brother," said Miklai.  "This is where we dwell the year
round."

  The words fell clearly enough on Yanos' ears but left him only
in confusion.  A man must have meat to live.  The herd, which
gives the meat, must unendingly move on in search of fresh
pasture.  Therefore, a man must move on too.  Anyone in his
sense understood that....  A quick shock passed through him
and he looked sharply at Miklai.  No, that could not be it.  Even
the mad ones had to eat, and his brother, while only a lump of
a herdsman, was obviously not starving.  Could it be that he was
a practitioner of the Black Arts...?

  The ponies had advanced slowly, and now they were before the
entrance of the house.

  "You will understand everything before you leave."  Miklai
was saying.  "Shall we go in?"

  The room into which they came was circular and low-ceilinged,
not unlike the interior of a tent.  A young woman with a brown
placid face was bent over the hearth, busy with cooking.  Near
her, two small boys were playing with a pile of pebbles on the
floor, and against the wall a man squatted, mashing something in
a bowl.  The boys saw the stranger first, and darted behind the
woman's skirts.

  "Do not be afraid," said Miklai, advancing.  "This is my
brother, Yanos.  Brother, this is Domita, my wife, and my two
little ones."

  The woman came forward and greeted the guest with grave
courtesy.  Yanos replied in kind, and smiled and pinched the
cheeks of the two boys.  "And this?" he inquired, turning to the
man.

  "This is Havrik," said Miklai.  "My--my helper."

  "Helper?"  Yanos looked him slowly up and down.  The man
stood before him awkwardly, with eyes cast down, and he suddenly
noticed that he was very tall.  His skin and hair were lighter than
was usual among the herdsmen.

  "What do you do, fellow?" asked Yanos.

  The main raised his eyes but said nothing.

  "He is a mute, brother," said Miklai.  "He performs odd jobs
for me about the place."

  "Havrik, eh?  That's a new sort of name."  Yanos turned away
as the two troopers who had followed him entered the room.  In-
stantly the woman and the tall pale helper stiffened, and the atmos-
phere again became tight with fear.

  "It's all right.  They are Yanos' men," Miklai assured them.
Presently they resumed their work, while the troopers stood silently
by the entrance.

  There was little talk during the preparation of the meal.  Yanos
sat in the place of honour, cross-legged on a bearskin rug, and
watched the others moving about.  Already he wished he had not
come.  He should have known there was no common ground
between himself and this barbarian family, even though it was his
brother's.  What did they understand of his life and ways, and of
what interest was theirs to him?...  But that was not all.  If it
were, he could have arisen forthwith, made an excuse and de-
parted with his troopers into the night....  He was conscious of
a strangeness, an air of mystery, that hung over the place.  The
house in which they dwelt, instead of in tent like every other
herdsman's clan; his brother's protestations that he possessed no
horses or cattle; this tall pale helper who squatted against the wall
and did not speak:  these things were queer and disturbing, and
he must get to the bottom of them before he left.  His eyes travelled
slowly over the objects and people in the room and again
came to rest on the man called Havrik.  They studied him intently
from under half-closed lids.

  After a while the food was ready, and the woman Domita set
it before him in an earthen bowl.

  "I think you will find it an interesting meal," said Miklai, seating
himself beside his brother.

  Instead of eating, Yanos merely stared at the contents of the
bowl.  Then he leaned forward and sniffed at it.

  "What meat is this?" he demanded.

  "It is not meat," replied Miklai.  "Come, try some, and tell
me how you like it."

  For another moment Yanos studied the strange things in the
bowl; then his gaze moved slowly to Milkai.  "It could not be
that you are trying to poison me, brother?"

  He spoke softly, but in the same instant the two troopers stepped
forward, swords in hand.

  "Poison you?" repeated Miklai aghast.  "How could you dream
such a thing?  No, Yanos, look, it is good; it is nourishing!"
He ate quickly from the bowl.  "See, I am not poisoned."

  Yanos gestured to his men and they retired again to the entrance.
He looked closely at his brother, then back at the bowl.  "If it is
not meat, what is it?"

  "This," said Miklai, pointing, "is called bread.  These small
black things are beans.  The leaves here are cabbage."

  "From the ground."

  "I have never seen such things growing in the ground."

  "They do not grow of themselves, brother, one must plant them
and cultivate them."

  "Cultivate?  What is that?"  But even as he spoke the shocking
realisation flashed into his mind that his earlier surmise had been
correct.  His brother was a practitioner of the Black Arts.

  "It is difficult to explain," Miklai was saying.  "In the morning
I shall show you my field and you will understand."  He leaned
forward, excitement shining in his face.  "This is why I begged
you to come, Yanos.  Wait until you see it--what I have been
doing.  It will open your eyes."

  Open his eyes, eh?  That was one way of putting it.

  "And now eat," Miklai urged.  "See if the food is not good."

  Yanos shook his head slowly.  "Thank you, brother, but I prefer
to leave things that sprout in the dirt to horses and oxen.  Asking
your pardon, I shall eat a man's food."

  He signalled to one of his men who went quickly outside and
returned with a saddlebag.  From it Yanos took a hindquarter of
dried boar's meat and cut it into three pieces for himself and the
[ s.s.                         145                            K]
troopers.  They gnawed it in silence, while the others ate from
the bowl.

  When he had finished and wiped his mouth on the rug Yanos
spoke in a quiet voice.  "I have heard tell in the encampment that
the barbarians of the west eat unclean weeds plucked from the
earth."  His dark eyes moved to the man called Havrik.  "Have
you heard that, brother?"

  Miklai did not answer.

  "It would be unfortunate if one of our herdsmen should so far
forget his allegiance to the realm as to harbour one of these bar-
barians at his hearthside, would it not, brother?"  He stretched his
arms and yawned.  "Ah, well, it is time for rest."

  He lay back, wrapped in the fur rug, and soon the fire went out
and the hut was dark and silent.  The only movements were the
stirring of the two children, sleeping beside their mother against
the farther wall, and the occasional shifting of the trooper who
remained on guard.

  But it was a long while before Yanos slept.  Painstakingly, one
by one, he reviewed the things he had seen and heard in the few
hours since he had met his brother, and, as he did this, his brow
knotted and his lips became a hard thin line.  It was not always
easy to be a soldier of the realm, for he bore his brother no ill will.

  In the early morning Miklai led him through the fields.  A
short distance from the house they came to a patch of ground
where the dun grassland sprouted suddenly into tall yellow stalks.

  "Look, brother, this is wheat," said Miklai.  He bent down
among the stalk.  "See, it grows from seed--these tiny grains."

  But Yanos was not looking at the wheat.  His eyes were on
the distant horizon and his mind was busy with the things that
he must say.  He sighed a little and squared his shoulders.

  "This is doubtless all very interesting," he said, "but time is
pressing and my men and I must be getting on.  Shall we go now
to the pasture?"

  Miklai straightened.  "The pasture?"

  "This little matter of the horses and cattle."

  "But I have already told you I have neither."

  Yanos bit his lip.  "I am afraid you do not understand, brother.
The King-Protector has decreed that each and every herdsman
must contribute one horse and three head of cattle to the Grand
Army.  There can be no exceptions."

  "A man cannot contribute what he does not possess."

  "I wonder if you are being a liar or a fool."

  "Neither, Yanos, I swear to you.  This grain--these crops--are
all I have.  For years I have spent my life with them, planting,
harvesting, experimenting..."

  "Experimenting, eh?"  Yanos's face was sombre.  "So my
suspicions were right.  You admit you have been dabbling in the
Black Arts."

  "No, no!  There is nothing of the Black Arts in this.  It is as
simple and natural as herding or hunting."  Yanos grunted incre-
dulously and turned away, but Miklai seized him by the arm.
"Brother, you must believe me.  You must listen to me.  For so
long I have worked on this thing, had faith in it; now at last
I have seen the living proof before my eyes.  All that remains is
that others should learn of it too.  But I am a poor man, a nobody;
who would pay attention to me?  They will pay attention to
you though, Yanos.  The first moment I saw you last night,
when your troopers brought me in to you, I said to myself, 'Here
is the chance!'  You live in the great world and have the ear of
the mighty.  It is within your power to make these things known,
even to the King-Protector himself."

  "Imbecile!  Why should the King-Protector or anyone else be
interested in these weeds of yours?"

  "Don't you see, brother?  If I can grow crops, others can.  The
soil of these plains is black and rich.  It could yield enough to feed
a nation."

  "A nation fed on grass, hey?"  Yanos smiled.  "A nation of
cows and asses."

  "No--a nation of planters, of settled farmers instead of wander-
ing herdsmen."  Miklai's eyes kindled and his voice grew tense
and urgent.  "I swear it to you, Yanos; what you see here--these
little growing things--can transform our country and our people.
There will no longer be the need for pillage and conquest to secure
food.  We will not have to roam the world in search of new pas-
tures for the herds.  We can live from the land and learn the ways
of peace."

  Yanos did not answer at once and, when at last he did, the smile
was quite gone from his face.  "So you wish to transform the
realm, brother?  You fancy you have better plans than the King-
Protector for the future of our people?"

  "I wish only that we might live in peace instead of unending
war."

  Yanos shook his head, almost sadly.  "I had guessed you were
a fool, brother," he said, "but I did not know you were a traitor
as well."

  "But I have said nothing----"

  "You have said too much."

  He turned on his heel and strode across the fields to the house.
Behind him he heard Miklai's voice, arguing and pleading, but he
did not pause to listen.

  Entering the house, he looked quickly about him.  The woman
Domita was again at the hearth, preparing the morning meal, with
the two boys playing near her on the floor.  Havrik, the helper,
squatted against the wall.  The two troopers lounged near the
entrance.

  Without preliminaries Yanos pointed at Havrik.  "Seize him",
he commanded to the troopers.  The two men sprang across the room
and jerked the helper to his feet.  "This swine is a barbarian and
an enemy of the realm.  Take him outside and dispose of him."

  The troopers dragged their prisoner across the room and out
through the entrance.  The woman, the two boys and Miklai, who
had followed his brother into the house, stared after them in
silence.  A moment later there was a shuddering cry from oudside.

  Yanos looked grimly at his brother.  "I see the mute has been
cured of his affliction," he said.

  Still Miklai did not move.  His eyes went to the entrance as the
two troopers came in, wiping the long curved blades of their
swords; then his gaze returned slowly to Yanos.

  "What have you done?" he murmured.  His voice was scarcely
audible and his lips did not seem to move.

  "I have fulfilled the laws of the King-Protector by eliminating
an enemy of the realm," said Yanos simply.

  "An enemy? Poor Havrik was no man's enemy. He was gentle
and wise----"

  "Do you take me for a fool?"  Yanos cut him short.  "Do you
think I did not know that he was one of the Accursed Race from
the west?  Or that it was from him you have learned these black
abominations you have been practicing?  It is lucky for you it was
I and not another foraging party that came here, for your crimes
are as dark as his."

  "_You_ dare to speak of crimes?" breathed Miklai.

  Yanos ignored his words.  "Enough of this babble," he said
sharply.  "It is time I ventured to my men and the herds."  He
passed his hand slowly over his chin, considering the situation.
"What you have done merits the severest penalties, but blood,
they say, is thicker than water, and I shall be generous with you.
I shall return here this evening before we ride off to the north.
By that time you are to have destroyed these so-called crops of
yours and to have on hand one horse and one ox as contributions
to the Grand Army.  If these things are done, I shall--well--over-
look certain other things I have seen and heard to-day."

  "Destroy my crops?"  Miklai's eyes burned and his hands were
trembling.  "I refuse."

  "Be careful what you are saying, brother."

  "You are not my brother," cried Miklai wildly.  "Nor a
soldier either.  You are a raider, a plunderer, a murderer!  All you
know on earth is to take orders and to destroy.  Well, I do not
know how to take orders--not from such as you.  I say to hell
with you, and your bloody realm and your King-Protector...."

  Yanos did not remember drawing his sword.  All he knew was
that it was suddenly falling and rising and falling and rising, and
that in place of his brother's straining voice there was all at once
the screaming of a woman, or perhaps a child.  Then Miklai was
lying on the floor, his face upward, his eyes open and staring.
Yanos turned away and stumbled blindly from the house.

  Outside, the two troopers were standing beside the body of the
barbarian.  Yanos steadied himself, gave them their orders in a
sharp curt phrase and mounted his pony.  Then he was careening
over the empty grassland.

  It was not until he had almost reached his own camp that he
slowed his mount and looked back.  He saw that his men had
done their work speedily; for already there was a plume of smoke
in the sky above the line of the horizon.  Yanos watched for a
short while, then turned slowly away.  There was still a faintness
in his body and a darkness behind his eyes.  But he rode into camp
with head up and back straight, as a soldier should.


  Three nights later the young officer Yanos sat astride his war-
pony on the parade ground of the great encampment.  Behind
him, in close formation, was his troop; to either side, as far as the
eye could see, stretched the ranks of the Grand Army.  The flames
of bonfires threw a glow across the dark sky and danced on the
weapons and armour of a hundred thousand warriors.  On a dais,
near the greatest of the fires, stood the King-Protector addressing
his host.

  "To-morrow at daybreak," he cried, "we march west!  To-
morrow we set forth on the greatest of our campaigns--a campaign
which, after long centuries, will at last win for our people the place
in the sun which is rightfully theirs.  We have already conquered
in the east, the north, the south.  Now we move against the greatest
of our enemies: the barbarians of the west.  The powers of darkness
and evil will be aligned against us, but we will thunder over them
as the wind thunders over the grass of the plains.  They are weak,
degenerate, divided.  We are strong, resolved, united: a great
nation conscious of our destiny...."
