THE MOUNTAINS OF THE AXIS

THE SMALL blue roadster hummed through the fields of France.
It sped past the prim anachronisms of Fountainebleau and on into
the vineyards of Burgundy, waiting sunnily for the bombs.  It
raised a long feather of dust in the valleys of the Seine and Saône
and wound between the wooded slopes of the Jura.  At Auxonne
it paused for gas outside the Grande Hôtel de la Poste et de l'Univers.
At Poligny it passed a fork in the road that branched off to
Mulhouse and the Rhine.

René pointed and said, "Black Forest."

Anton nodded.  They had cycled down that fork once, pedalling
leisurely, across the river and among the friendly woods and inns
of south-west Germany.  In those days the innkeepers had said
_"Grüss Gott"_ to the arriving traveller.  But that had not been
in the month of August in the year 1939.

The little car sped across the valley of the Rhône to the Swiss
border.  Skirting the city of Geneva, it threaded its way along the
northern shore of the lake, and as it moved on, the sun sloped
away behind and the great peaks crept up out of the darkening
east.  The two men sat side by side and did not speak.  The motor
chugged to the challenge of rising ground, and the wind was
suddenly cool and wine-thin in their faces.  Then the tall grey
masses closed in about them and they twined among the mountains
in the night.

In the valleys they flashed by the pinprick lights of sleeping
villages.  In the high passes the glaciers loomed greyly, but the
peaks were blacked out in the sky.  The headlamps of the car
fingered the road with faint yellow light....  These were the
mountains of Hannibal, of Alaric, of Bonaparte.  These were the
asses of armies and conquest.  Roofing the very nub of Europe,
tunnelled, mined, charted, surrounded, they had for thousands of
years been the home and highway of men.  Now the swastika was
blasted in their granite; the fasces were encrusted in their ice-fields.
These were the Mountains of the Axis....  Yet on this night, or
any night, they might have been the Mountains of the Moon.
Almost as if they had been forced upward by the thousand pressures
of the surrounding world, they stood in the very heart and centre
of that world but had no part in it, nor it in them.  Sunlight and
storm were the dictators here, and erosion the Law and the
Prophets.

At midnight they passed through a deep gorge in the heart of
the Bernese Oberland.  Suddenly the gorge bent.  Then its walls
fell away and it opened out into the little valley of Kurtal.  The
valley could not have been more than two miles in length.
Directly ahead, shutting off further passage, were the ice and
granite ramparts of the Wunderhorn.  Faintly through the night
they could see the dark sweep of forest rising from the valley
floor; then more clearly above it the grey spectre of the glacier;
then, faintly again, the wedge of the peak itself against the sky.
Now the car hummed along a stretch of level road.  Scattered
lights came up on either side, and they passed through the silent
village.  Kurtal's inn, the Wunderhof, lay half a mile further on.
As they swung up to the entrance the night porter came out and
said, _"Grüss Gott."_  Half an hour later they were in bed.  Outside,
behind the gently blowing curtains, they heard the mountains
rumbling in their sleep.


It was late when they came down in the morning, and the
dining room was empty.  A waitress with red cheeks and a goitre
bought them breakfast, and they ate it leisurely.  When they had
almost finished the innkeeper appeared.

"The gentlemen have slept well?" he inquired.

"Famously," said René.

Their host looked about the room.  "The other guests," he
said apologetically, "are already out."

"Are there many?" Anton asked.

"Alas, no.  The tourists, they are few these days."  He shrugged.
"But those who are here are excellent and first class.  There is
a Major Bonham-Wilkins of the British Alpine Club---"

"There always is," said René.

"He has been here each summer for the past eight years.  Then
there is a nice Danish couple and two young Germans."  He
looked at them.  "The gentlemen are both French?"

"I am Czech," Anton said.

"Ah, from Prague perhaps?"

"I live in Paris now."

The proprietor said nothing for a moment.  Then he asked,
"Do the gentlemen plan to climb?"

"Oh yes," said René.

"The gentlemen will then be wanting a guide?"

"I don't think so."

The proprietor looked dubious.  "The is danger without a
guide.  My brother-in-law now, he is a most reliable licensed---"

"Thanks all the same," said Anton.

"Of course, if the gentlemen are expert Alpinists---"

"I wouldn't say that."

"For expert Alpinists, to be sure, a guide is quite unnecessary.
These two young Germans, now, they are distinguished members
of the _Deutsch-Österreichische Alpenverin_ and they have no guides.
Yet they have made some formidable ascents."

"Have they?" said René.

"Perhaps the gentlemen would like to--how you say?--join
forces with them?"

"No," said Anton.  "I think not."

After breakfast they walked to the village and secured the things
they would need for climbing.  They rented heavy nailed boots
and two ice-axes with a confusion of carved initials on the hafts.
They bought snow-glasses and a rope--eighty feet of strong yellow
manila.

"Will the gentlemen be wanting a guide?" inquired the shopkeeper.

"No," said René.

"I have a brother-in-law---"

"Thanks all the same."

Back at the inn they found the waitress and had her get them
a loaf of bread, some cheese and a pint of red wine.  Then
they borrowed a rucksack from the proprietor and set out.
Walking slowly, they followed the road in the opposite direction
from the village.  The sun was bright and warm, but the air
was mountain air.  It sucked down into their lungs like cold clean
water.  Flocks of sheep and goats were at pasture alongside the
road, their bells tinkling.  Beyond the green meadows the
forest, glaciers and finally the grey peaks tiered endlessly into
blue sky.

Soon the road dwindled to a path, and they passed into dark
aisled slopes of pine and spruce.  They climbed steadily, and although
the air grew perceptibly cooler their backs and shoulders
were wet under their shirts.  After two hours the timber that lined
the path began to thin out.  They passed through a belt of dwarf
pine and across a steeply tilted zone of moss and scraggly moss-hugging
shrubs.  The unobstructed sun blazed down on them
again, and they climbed more slowly.

Presently there was no longer earth under the nails of their
boots, but stone.  Looking upward and ahead, they saw no vesting
of the gaily-coloured world from which they had set out.  For a
distance of perhaps two miles before them stretched a savage
slanting wilderness of tumbled rocks--the terminal moraine of the
Wunderhorn Glacier.  Beyond and above it loomed the white
snout of the glacier itself and the gleaming expanse of the ice-field.

Farther and higher still were the grey battlements of the mountain
proper, seeming to thrust almost vertically into the sky.  In the
whole sweep of desolation only one thing moved and lived.  Far
away, from under the lip of the glacier, a milk-grey torrent of
water plunged downward over the rocks.  Its spray flew upward
and hung in the still air.  Other than this there was only silence and
transfixion in the grey world above the forests.

They sat on a flat-topped boulder and gnawed at chunks of fresh
bread and golden cheese.  Between mouthfuls they sipped the
wine.  It was dry and good, but they wished it was water.  Afterwards
they lay on their backs on the boulder, and the sun and sky
and the great fanged wedge of the Wunderhorn swan easily
together before their half-closed eyes.

Suddenly René sat up.  A sound had come to him that was not
the distant roaring of the stream.  Looking about he saw two
figures, scarcely more than dots, descending towards them over
the great stones of the moraine.  It was almost ten minutes before
the figures came close enough to be recognisable as two young
men.  They were dressed in Bavarian costume: _lederhosen,_ flowered
shirts and green hats with shaving brushes.  They wore heavy
climbing boots and carried rucksacks, axes and rope.  One was tall
and the other short, but both were strongly built and had fresh
ruddy faces and close-cropped yellow hair.

René touched Anton's arm, and he sat up.  In a moment the
two climbers came abreast of the boulder and stopped.

_"Grüss Gott,"_ they said in unison.

_"Grüss Gott,"_ René answered them.

_"Grüss Gott,"_ said Anton.

The two strangers stood looking at them, smiling.  Then the
shorter one swung his pack to the ground, opened a flap and
pulled out a canteen.  He opened the canteen and held it out to
the men on the rock.

_"Bitte?"_ he asked.

René shook his head.  _"Danke schön,"_ he said.  He pointed to
the empty wine bottle.

_"Ach: wein."_  The short one nodded.  He took a swallow from
the canteen and handed it to his companion.

_"'S ist furchtbar heiss heute: nicht wahr?"_ he said.  He had pulled
a handkerchief from his pocket and was mopping his forehead.

_"Jawohl,"_ said René.

_"Aber schön.  'S ist immer schön im Gebirge."_

_"Jawohl."_

The tall one handed back the canteen and the short one put it
away.  _"Also, Hans---"_ he said, swinging the pack on to his
shoulders.

The two stood for a moment, smiling again.  Then they stopped
smiling.  _"Heil Hitler,"_ they said together.

Neither René nor Anton said anything.  The two Germans
looked at them with cool blue eyes.  Then they turned away and
swung down the path, across the steep slope of moss and creepers.
Soon they were out of sight in the timber below.


The days were too short and too few.  The next morning they
left the hotel at six, ascended three of the lesser peaks of the ridge
that formed the eastern wall of the valley, and returned at eight in
the evening.  The third day they climbed the Wetteralp, a tower-like
mass near the Wunderhorn Glacier.  They climbed easily and
without haste, following routes which were clearly marked by the
hand- and foot-holds of many climbers.  Their faces, necks and
hands turned brown-black in the snow-reflected sun  Their bodies
at night were tired as they had not been tired in years, but it was
a satisfying, almost exhilarating tiredness that touched only muscle
and bone and did not penetrate brain or heart.  They ate cheese
and bread, fresh fruit and chocolate, and they drank tea and the
cold water from the mountain freshets.  The little blue car had
been put away in the darkness of the garage behind the inn.  And
the lives from which it had brought them, and to which it would
soon return them, had been put away too, in the forgotten darkness
behind the bright circle of peaks.

They had saved the Wunderhorn for last.  They planned to
ascend it by the usual route, which was familiar to them and
presented no special difficulties.  Nevertheless, it would be a wearing
climb of some eighteen or twenty hours, and they therefore
spent the preceding day lounging about the inn.  The weather was
still clear and looked as if it would hold.

In the afternoon the inn was all but deserted.  The Danish
couple were off on an excursion, and the proprietor had gone to
the village.  The two Germans had been out since early morning
on an unannounced scent.  Only Bonham-Wilkins, the Englishman,
was in evidence, seated at his usual place in the little room
off the lobby that served as a bar.  He was reading a newspaper,
but looked up as René and Anton came in.

"You chaps seen the papers?" he inquired.

Anton shook his head.  The Englishman shoved the paper towards
them along the bar.  It had a black headline across the top.
Anton read for a few moments and René looked over his shoulder.

"What's _Einverleibung_?" René asked.

"Same as _Anschluss,_" said Anton.

"What do you think?" Bonham-Wilkins asked.  "Does it
mean war?"

Anton did not answer immediately.  When he did, he said, "I'd
rather not have seen this until next week."  He put down the
paper, went behind the bar and poured himself a brandy.

"Will you go back?" the Englishman asked.

"Back where?"

"To Prague."

Anton shook his head.  "I do not live there."

"I understood you were a Prager."

"No," said Anton.  "No.  I was a Prager when a Prager was
also a Czech."

There was the sound of a door closing, and the proprietor came
in.

"You have heard about the Germans?" he asked excitedly.

The others nodded.  "It's in the paper," Bonham-Wilkins told
him.

"No, no, I mean the climbers."

"What about the climbers?"

"They are on the east face of the Wunderhorn.  Everyone was
watching them through the telescope in the village.  They must
have left the Heilweg hut early this morning and climbed straight
up.  When we left the village just now they were about a third
of the way to the top."

"But they can't possibly make it before dark," said René.

The proprietor shrugged.  "Then they must plan to spend the
night on the face."

"Good God!"

"It's insane," said Bonham-Wilkins.  "Insane and suicidal!"

"One cannot tell," the proprietor said.  "Always was it the belief
that the Eigerwand and the north face of the Matterhorn were
--how you say?--suicide.  The best guides and most distinguished
Alpinists, they have always said the ascents were impossible.  Then
these young Germans begin to climb--fellows like these two--and
in a few years they have done them both."

"But how can they live through a night on the face?" said
René.

"They have _pitons_ and _karabiners_.  They will probably lash
themselves to the rock."

Bonham-Wilkins shook his head.  "I don't understand it," he
said.  "Ten years ago any climber would have been ashamed to
use _pitons_ or _karabiners_ on a mountain.  He prided himself on acting
like a rational human being and not taking unnecessary risks.  But
these fellows!  Climbing isn't a sport the way they do it."

The proprietor nodded.  "That is correct," he said.  "With
these young Germans climbing is not a sport."

"What in God's name is it then?"

The proprietor shrugged.  "With them it is--well, something
quite different."


They had an early supper and went to bed at nine.  And at one-thirty
the night porter awakened them.  They splashed water on
their faces, dressed quickly, and descended the stairs in their stockinged
feet, carrying their boots.  The porter had eggs and coffee
for them in the kitchen, and their lunches were in the ice-box,
wrapped in brown paper.  They ate quickly, slipped the lunches
in the pack with rope, snow-glasses and canteen, and laced up their
boots.  It was exactly two when they came out of the hotel.  There
was no moon, but the sky glittered with stars, and the great peaks
that hemmed the valley stood up in preternatural clearness in the
mountain night.  They swung up the road towards the dark timber,
and the crunch of their boots and the soft tapping of their ice-axes
were the only sounds between the earth and the stars.

It was almost four-thirty when they came out on the treeless
upper slopes.  In the deep notch between the Wunderhorn and
the Wetteralp the black sky was beginning to pale.  They rested
on the flat rock where they had first seen the Germans, then picked
their way slowly among the great boulders towards the snout of
the glacier.  As they advanced, the brilliance of the night faded.
The dawn seeped slowly up the eastern sky, and they moved through
a hushed suspended twilight of grey rock and air.  In half an hour
they were directly under the glacier.  They crossed the stream near
the point at which it spouted out from under the ice and a few
minutes later gained the glacier itself.

"There's the hut," said René.

Perhaps two miles distant, at the far rim of the great river of
ice, was the brown dot of the Heilweg hut.  Directly behind it the
grey battlements of the Wunderhorn rose out of sight into the
morning mist.

Anton shivered.  "I wouldn't care much about spending a night
up there," he said.  "I wonder where they are?"

"They're lucky if they're anywhere--alive," said René.

They roped up and began the traverse of the glacier, moving
diagonally upward towards the hut.  The surface snow had frozen
during the night, and it was necessary to cut steps with the axes
on the steeper pitches.  The sky behind the eastern ridges was now
blue with full daylight, but the sun had not yet climbed above
them, and they ascended through an arctic half-light.  After an
hour the brown dot above them had grown into recognisable form,
and finally they came off the glacier and scrambled up the few
yards to the hut.

Inside it was like every Alpine hut: rough stone walls, held
together by great splotches of plaster; smoke-darkened beams
supporting the ceiling; straw mattresses in one corner, the stove
in another; a bare table and two benches.  Against the wall was a
cabinet with a few cooking utensils and a broom.  Everything was
scrupulously clean and in order.

René opened the pack and took out some food and the canteen.
"A la carte or prix fixe?" he asked.

Anton didn't answer.  He was bent over a sheet of paper that
lay on the table, weighted by a stone.

"What is it?" asked René.

"It's a note.  In German."

He was silent a few moments, reading.  "Listen to this," he said
finally.  _"'To Whom It May Concern: We leave this note on the
chance that we do not come back.  From this hut we set out to climb the
east face of the Wunderhorn.  If we return, we shall destroy this note.
If not, send no search-party after us, for we wish no help from those
weaker than ourselves.  If we fail, we shall at least fail nobly.  Our
own lives are nothing, the glory of our nation all.  Heil Vaterland!
Heil Hitler!  Hans Hohler--Gunther Bartsch.'"_

René came over, and they read the note again.  They they
placed it back under the stone, ate their meal and left the cabin.
Outside the sun had cleared the ridges, and the world was transformed.
Below them the white sweep of glacier had sprung into
dancing blinding life.  Mica and schist in the rocks around them
glittered like diamonds.  Straight overhead towered the east face
of the Wunderhorn, no longer softened by mist and half-light, but
naked and appalling, its cliffs veined with shallow snow-filled
chimneys.  They stood for a while, staring up at the vertical wilderness,
but there was no movement and no sound.

Starting off, they worked their way across the scree slopes at the
base of the cliffs.  In half an hour they had reached the beginning
of the north-east ridge, a great slanting spine of broken granite
that rose from the glacial valley to a shoulder directly below the
summit of the mountain.  It was this ridge that provided the most
direct and least hazardous route to the summit.  They paused
briefly, roped up, and began to climb.

They picked their way steadily upward.  Soon the hut was again
only a brown dot, a thousand feet below.  Then it was blotted out
by the rough outcroppings of the ridge.  Far away to the north the
Kurtal valley swung slowly into view.  They could see the white
thread of the stream, the next rectangles of the terraced fields, and
the sharp steeple of the village church surrounded by a smudge
of houses.  A little distance away a bright yellow speck surmounted
by a curl of smoke showed the site of the inn.  It was a miniature
world, without substance or reality, beyond a sea of stillness and
blue air.

The ridge offered no particular problems.  Occasionally a steep
pitch of rock necessitated slow going and judicious handling of
the rope; but the hand- and foot-holds were good and the rock
firm.  A thin wind had come up from the north, but it was not
enough to hamper them.  Indeed, it brought welcome relief from
the sun, which by now was high in the sky and burning on their
necks and backs.  They rested only at long intervals, but their
muscles and lungs felt less strain than they had experienced on
the lesser climbs of the previous days.  By eleven o'clock they
judged they were less than a thousand feet below the summit.

The last pitch of the ridge was a tortuous confusion of deep
chimneys and broken cliffs.  They proceeded one at a time here,
Anton ascending alone until the rope was taut between them and
waiting, braced, while René came up even.  They repeated this
manœuvre four times.  Then as Anton again reached the farthest
span of the rope he turned back to René.

"It's the shoulder," he called.

René scrambled up, and they stood together on a small rock
platform at the very summit of the ridge.  Everything they had
seen during the long morning's ascent was dwarfed by the awesome
sight which now confronted them.  The ridge ended in an overhang.
Directly beneath and on either side of the spot at which
they stood the sheer east face of the mountain dropped vertically
to the glacier, a mile below.  Above them and to the left the summit
ridge climbed in a delicate easy slope to the pinnacle of the
Wunderhorn.  There were no difficulties of climbing between
them and the top, but every step of the way would be along the
brink of the appalling precipice.  The entire height of the mountain,
up which they had laboured so many hours, was now exposed
below them in a single naked sweep.  One false step, one misjudgment
of distance or balance on the summit ridge, and their bodies
would twist in space for an eternity of five thousand feet.

But as they stood now on the shoulder they did not think of
these things in terms of themselves.  All that was in their minds
was the incredible fact that two men were now _climbing_ that
terrible wall of rock and ice....  Or perhaps had ceased to
climb....  Their eyes swept searchingly across the wild expanse
of the face.

Then René gripped Anton's arm.  "Look!" he said.

Although he had barely whispered, the word echoed like a shot
in that empty place of rock and air.  Not more than a hundred
yards from them, and at about the same level at which they stood,
two figures were inching upward over the grey-black slabs.  The
figures looked less like men than spiders.  Their bodies moved with
infinite slowness from position to position, now widespread, now
tightly contracted.  For a moment or two there would be no
motion whatever, the two bodies flattened against the face, as if
pinioned there.  Then an arm would grope upward, exploring the
surface above like the antenna of an insect, and after another
pause above like the antenna of an insect, and after another
pause the body would move slowly after it.  Above the creeping
figures the face soared for another thousand feet to the glittering
wedge of the summit.  Below them was rocks and ice and nothingness.

"Mother of God!" Anton murmured.  He stepped from the
platform of rock on which they had both been standing to a ledge
above the abyss.  His eyes clung to the figures of the climbers.  "I
can see their faces," he said.  "They look as if---"

As René remembered it later, it was at first only sound.  He was
listening to Anton's voice; then in a fraction of a second, so
instantaneous it was no part of time at all, the voice was gone in
the sharp sudden roar of crumbling rock.  Through it he heard
his own voice shouting.  There were Anton's fingers clawing where
the ledge had been, and the yellow rope spinning off into air, and
himself flung flat behind a boulder, clutching the boulder with his
arms, fighting to bury himself in the rock.  He thought later he
had closed his eyes.  But the yellow rope was still there, spinning,
vanishing.  Men have lived and died in the time that yellow rope
spun.

Then the shock came.  It was not only around his waist, where
the rope was tied, but everywhere in his tensed quivering body.  It
ripped his hands and feet along the ledge.  It ground his chest into
the rock and snapped his neck sidewise until it was doubled on
his shoulder.  Suddenly the shock passed.  For an instant the tension
was released, as if the weight on the other side of the rope
were gone.  Where the shock had been was a spasm of sickness and
horror.  The rope had broken....  No.  Even as the spasm came,
it passed.  In its place was a second shock, less violent than the
first; then a third.  Then the rope was right and motionless around
his body.  The knot in front cut through his shirt into the flesh
of his stomach.  He heard the strands creaking and the distant
thunder of falling rocks.  He heard Anton's voice still saying,
"They look as if---"

He never knew how long he lay there, stunned and panting.  It
might have been a minute; it might have been only the instant
in which Anton fell.  Then he found himself sitting with his feet
braced against the boulder.

"Anton!" he called.  "Anton!"

His blood froze in the momentary silence that followed.  Then
faintly a voice came up from below.  "I--I'm hanging."

"Are you hurt?"

There was another silence.  Then Anton called back faintly.
"I don't think so."

"Is the rope fast?"

"It's crushing my ribs.  It--it's hard to talk."

René braced his feet higher against the boulder and grasped the
rope in both hands.  Then he leaned back, pulling.  He pulled
until his clothing was wet with sweat and his palms were streaked
with blood.  He pulled with his whole body until he was lying
flat on his back.  The rope scarcely moved.

He sat up again, panting.  He felt that in another minute all
the breath would be strangled from his body.  Groping for his
axe, he forced its point between the rope and his diaphragm, so
that its haft took some of the pressure.

"Anton," he said quietly.  "Anton, can you hear me?"

"You can't pull me up.  It's impossible," came Anton's voice.

"Can you reach anything from where you are?"

"No."

"Try."

The voice came back slowly and in jerks.  "That's an--overhang
we were on.  I'm hanging--ten feet from the face."

"You can't swing in?"

"No."

"Can you climb the rope?"

"I've tried.  I can't."

René shifted his position behind the boulder and pulled again.
It was no use.  He succeeded in drawing up about two feet of rope.
Then his strength failed and he had to let go.

Anton's voice came faintly up to him.  "Don't.  You're cutting
me in two."

René leaned forward and caught his breath in short sharp gasps.
Then he crawled slowly towards the end of the boulder, still using
its side for support.  He craned his head forward as far as he could.
Below him the yellow rope stretched downward into space, but its
end was hidden beneath the projecting eaves of the overhang.
Raising his eyes, he searched the vast face of the mountain. And
again he saw the two figures inching up the wall.

He shouted at the top of his lungs:  "Help! Help!"  But the
figures did not seem to hear or, if they heard, did not respond.
He cupped his hands and shouted again.  He shouted until his
voice broke and there was no breath in his body.  Then he raised
his hands above his head.  The rope cut into his flesh like a circular
knife.

As he watched, the two figures stopped their creeping progress.
At first he could not tell if they had seen or heard him, or were
merely making another of their enforced pauses.  In a moment,
however, a voice came to him thinly across the void:  _"Hallo!
Was gibt's!"_

"Help!" he called again.  _"Hilfe!  Ein Zufall!"_

He did not know whether the Germans had understood him or
seen Anton dangling on the rope below.  They did not call out
again, but after a moment he saw that they had abandoned their
upward struggle and were edging transversely across the face of
the mountain.  "They're coming," he called down to Anton.

"It's all right.  They're coming."

Anton answered in a voice so weak that he could not distinguish
the words.  René braced himself securely behind the boulder and
watched the progress of the two climbers across the all but vertical
wall.  They were moving now even more slowly than when they
had been ascending.  The few ledges of the wall sloped sharply
downward and were glazed with ice.  The holes on the rock were
so shallow it seemed a miracle that their hands and feet could
gain a purchase on them.  Still they came on.  Not more than fifty
feet from where René sat they reached a smooth granite outcropping
that ran down the side of the mountain like a column.  The
leader--he was the smaller one, René could now see--turned his
body around so that he faced in towards the rock, gripped the
holdless rib with his knees and inched out upon it.  He had almost
turned the farthest projecting point when he slipped.  His hands
and boots cloved at the stone, but his body slid downward.  A yard
below him the rib ended, flattened out and disappeared into the
smooth mountain wall.  When he reached that point, he would be
slipping no more, but twisting in air a mile above the glacier.
René tried to look away, but couldn't.  And suddenly, as he
watched, the man's downward progress stopped.  Something--
hand or foot or knee--had caught a minute projection in the rock,
and held.  He clung motionless to the rib, his feet not six inches
above its lowest point.

It seemed minutes before he moved again.  Then arms and legs
began slowly feeling their way upward and across.  This time he
attempted the rib a few feet above the spot from which he had
slipped.  With painful slowness he edged himself around its nose.
And a moment later had reached the comparative safety of a ledge
on the near side.  Mechanically and without pause he pulled in
the slack of the rope, which his companion had been holding.
And mechanically and without pause his companion edged forward
around the rib.  In another two minutes they were next to René
behind the boulder.

Now the strength of three men pulled at the rope from which
Anton was suspended.  It came up swiftly and easily for about ten
feet--and caught.  They let it out slowly and pulled again.  It
caught again.  They pulled with all their combined strength, but
the rope refused to budge.

Anton's voice came up from below.  "It's wedged between two
rocks."

"Can we pull it free?"

"I don't think so.  You'll break it."

They let out the rope to its full length.  "Also, " said the smaller
German, _"Wir mussen hinunter."  With sure rapid movements he
unknotted the rope from René's waist.  While René and his
companion held it he tied its now loose end around a smooth
projection of the boulder.  When he had finished the two others
loosened their grip, at first tentatively, then entirely.  The rope held.

Both Germans now edged forward until they were on the brink
of the overhang and peered down.  _"Kann nichts sehen."_  said the
taller one.  He returned to the boulder and braced himself behind
it in much the same position René had assumed when he had
been supporting Anton's weight.  He coiled the slack of the rope
that joined him to his companion and laid on the rock.  Then
he indicated that René should join him.  The two held the rope
in their hands so that it was taut between them and the other man.
The smaller one turned.  _"Fertig?"_ he asked.  They nodded.
Without more ado he dropped to all fours and slowly lowered
himself down the lip of the overhang.  In a moment only his face
and arms were visible, his elbows supporting him on the outermost
ledge of rock.  Then he let go.  His face disappeared, and in its
place was only the rope, quivering with the weight that swung
in space below.  René and the second German paid out the rope
slowly, hand over hand.

When they had let out about fifteen feet a call of _"Halt"_ came
up to them.  They held fast.  In a moment the rope began to sway
and jerk in their hands, indicating that the man on the end was
manœuvring his body in the air.  Presently they heard the faint
sound of metal scraping against rocks, and René realised that he
was trying to free the jammed rope on which Anton was suspended.
They waited.

_"Kann es nicht befreien,"_ the voice came up again.  And a moment
later:  _"Hinunter."_  Again they paid out the rope, this time
to almost its full length.  When a faint _"Halt"_ finally reached
them René knew the German must have reached the level where
Anton hung.  There was a long silence.  Then the call came:  _"Lass
das andere zeil herab."

The man beside René took his hands from the rope, bearing
his share of the weight with his body.  Taking another rope from
his rucksack he uncoiled it quickly and tied one end around a
smooth projection of rock, as they had done with Anton's rope a
few minutes before.  When he was satisfied that it was a secure he
threw the other end over the lip of the overhang.  It slithered
down close beside the two other ropes.  Soon a jerk from below
showed it had reached its destination.

Now came the longest wait of all.  At intervals all three ropes
twitched violently, sometimes separately, sometimes together; but
there was no sound from below.  René knew that the German
down there was trying to secure the third rope around Anton's
body.  He strained at the rope he held in his bleeding hands, and
his mind and body grew numb.

Then the cry came.

_"Ziehe,"_ commanded the man beside him.

Together they pulled on the rope in their hands.  Foot by foot
it came up, and the coils of slack twined loosely on the rock by
their feet.  Finally the head and shoulders of the other German
appeared on the rim of the ledge, and in a moment he had pulled
himself alongside them.

_"Alles gut,"_ he said.

Taking out a knife he cut the strands of the rope from which
Anton had originally been suspended.  It slid gently down the
boulder and vanished in space.  Then the three of them were
pulling together on the sole remaining rope, hand over hand, foot
by foot.  René pulled with a strength he had not believed remained
in his aching body and torn hands.  In less than a minute Anton's
head and shoulders appeared.  An instant later he was on the ledge.
He stood leaning against the boulder, face inward, with his head
resting on his arm.  Then he vomited.

It was a long time before anyone spoke.  René loosened the rope
around Anton's waist and ascertained that no ribs were broken.

"Are you all right?" he asked finally.

Anton nodded.

René sat down on the boulder and patted his hands with his
handkerchief.  The Germans sat silently with their legs spread and
their eyes on the ground.

Anton looked up at them.  "How can I thank you?" he said.

_"Es war nichts,"_ said the small one.

There was another silence.  Then the tall one rose.  _"Alzo, wir
mussen fortsetzen."_

The other got up and stood beside him.  And now, as if he were
seeing them for the first time, René was suddenly aware of their
appearance.  They did not look like climbers, but like two soldiers
on a blasted battlefield.  Their clothing was in tatters.  Their hands
were black with earth and dried blood, and there was blood on
their knees where the fleshed showed through the rents in their
trousers.  Their faces were gaunt, the gauntness heightened by
layers of dirt and 3-day growths of beard.  Under their eyes
were the dark hollows of fatigue that was close to exhaustion.

"Rest a while," said René.

The smaller one shook his head.  "We must go on," he said in
French, speaking slowly and with heavy inflection.

"At least eat something, then."

"Thank you, we are not hungry."

"But you must be.  Your packs are empty."

"We have climbed this far without food," said the tall one.
"We can go the rest of the way."

Anton had opened the rucksack.  He brought out cheese, chocolate
and the canteen.  The Germans shook their heads.

"See, their is plenty."

"We do not need it."

"We do not need the help of those---"

René smiled thinly.  "Of those weaker than yourselves?" he
asked.

The Germans did not answer.  They adjusted their guide-rope
about their wastes, stowed the second in their pack, and the
tall one slung the pack on to his shoulders.  Then they moved
towards the far end of the rock platform.

"You're going back on the face?" said Anton.

"Of course."

"Don't be fools.  Go up the ridge.  From here it is easy."

"We are not interested in what is easy."

"But why risk your lives this way, when---"

"You are not a German.  You would not understand."

At the far edge of the platform they turned.  Their eyes were as
blue and cold as the sky beyond them.  _"Heil Hitler!"_ they said.

Anton said nothing.

René said nothing.

"You will not say it?" asked the smaller one.

"No," René answered.

"Soon you will," said the German.

He and his companion moved out on to the precipice.  Anton
made a sudden movement as if to hold them back, but René
stopped him.  "It is too late," he said.  "It is years too late."

They sat watching while the Germans inched their way across
the face.  Presently they came to the smooth columnar rib and
crept around it without mishap.  In a quarter of an hour they
gained the point at which they had been when René's cries had
reached them, and began moving slowly upward.  Soon they were
the merest brown specks on the immensity of the mountain wall.
A mile below, the glacier glinted in the noonday sunlight. A
thousand feet above, the great grey wedge of the Wunderhorn's
summit was clamped against the sky.

René and Anton watched until the specks had disappeared.
Then they arose and began the descent of the mountain.


The small blue roadster hummed through the valleys and passes
of Switzerland.  It twisted along the routes of Hannibal and Alaric
and Bonaparte.  It sped with open throttle among the Mountains
of the Axis.

At the village near Bern the car stopped, and its occupants ate
lunch and bought a newspaper.  On the front page it said _Einverleibung_
again.  It said _Ultimatum_ and _Mobilmachung_ and _Blitzkrieg_.
On an inside page it said: _"Two young Bavarian Germans were
killed late yesterday in a five-thousand-foot fall from the east face of the
Wunderhorn.  According to local guides, they had apparently been
delayed in the ascent and were overcome by exhaustion while..."_

Then the little car sped out of Switzerland into the bright fields
of France.  It passed through towns and villages and fertile farmlands,
and soon the white line of the peaks had sunk from sight
behind.  In all the sky, now, there was only blue space and sunlight,
and far off to the right, a single plane droning northward along
the Rhine.


"I owe them my life," said Anton.

René said nothing.

"But I will have to forget it."

"Yes," said René, "we will have to forget it."

