THE SILVER SWORD

THEIR NAME was Brownell--Howard and Frances--and I could
tell from the start that they weren't the usual run of tourists.  They
drove through the gate, got out of their car and came up on to the
veranda, where I was going through my weekly struggle with the
plantation accounts.

  "Mr. Masterson?" the man asked, and then they introduced
themselves.  "Sorry to barge in," he added, "but we couldn't get
you on the phone from Wailuku."

  "It's easier to get Moscow," I assured him.

  I pushed back my table and got up and brought two chairs for
them.  "We were told in Honolulu that you take people up the
volcano," Brownell said.

  "Well, I'm not exactly a guide."

  "Oh?"

  "Mostly I'm a planter."  I nodded out past the garden at the
long rows of pineapple fields.  "Once in a while, though, I take
out a pack trip.  How many would there be in your party?"

  "Just myself."

  I look questioningly at his wife.

  "I'm afraid I'm not the volcano type," she said.

  She smiled as she spoke, and when she smiled she was even
prettier than before, which was about as pretty as they come.  No,
pretty is the wrong word.  Pretty is a word for girls, and Mrs.
Brownell, though still young, was unmistakably no longer a girl
but a woman.  A handsome, well-kept, well-dressed woman with
a smooth tanned face and ash-blonde haid.  Very trim.  Very poised.
Very definitely (I agreed) not the volcano type.  In fact, I won-
dered how she had got even this far afield from the Royal Hawaiian
and the Queen's Surf Club.

  I turned back to Brownell.  "It would be pretty expensive for
just one," I told him.

  "It doesn't matter," he said.  Then he looked deliberately at
his wife.  "Does it, darling?"

  She didn't answer.

  "No, it doesn't matter," he assured me.

  There were no two ways about the right word for Brownell.  It
was big.  He had a big frame, big hands, big features, and there
was power in them, but the power seemed loose, disjointed, some-
how slovenly.  Only his eyes were clear and unblurred-an
intensely bright, almost innocent blue.  He might have been forty,
or a little over.  Hardly the volcano type either, when you came
to think of it.

  "How long would you want to spend on the trip?" I asked him.

  "Oh, a week, say."

  I looked at his wife again.

  "Don't worry about me, gentlemen," she smiled.  "I'll go
back to Waikiki and work on my tan."

  "You don't live here in the islands, do you?"

  "In Hawaii?  No," she said.  "But we're staying several
months."

  "Sounds like a nice leisurely visit."

  "We lead a nice leisurely sort of life.  My husband paints."

  For want of something to say, I said "Oh."  Brownell--Howard
Brownell--I repeated in my mind, but drew only a blank.

  "Don't try to be polite."  Brownell said.  "You haven't heard
of me."

  There was a moment's pause.

  "You'll find some tremendous colours up there in the crater,"
I said.  "Especially at sunrise and sunset."

