TOP MAN

THE GORGE bent.  The walls fell steeply away, and we came out
on the edge of a bleak boulder-strewn valley.

  _And there it was._

  Osborn saw it first.  He had been leading the column, threading
his way slowly among the huge rock-masses of the gorge's mouth.
Then he came to the first flat bare place and stopped.  He neither
pointed nor cried out, but every man behind him knew instantly
what it was.  The long file sprang taut, like a jerked rope.  As
swiftly as we could, but in complete silence, we came out one by
one into the open space where Osborn stood and raised our eyes
with his.

  In the records of the Indian Topographical Survey it says:
"Kalaputhra: altitude 27,930 ft.  The highest peak in the Garhwal
Himalayas and probably fourth highest in the world.  Also known
as K3.  A Tertiary formation of sedimentary limestone...."

  There were men among us who had spent months of their lives
--in some cases years--reading, thinking, planning about what
now lay before us; but at that moment statistics and geology,
knowledge thought and plans, were as remote and forgotten as
the far-away western cities from which we had come.  We were
men bereft of everything but eyes, everything but the single
electric perception: _there it was!_

  Before us the valley stretched into miles of rocky desolation.
To right and left it was bounded by low ridges, which, as the eye
followed them, slowly mounted and drew closer together, until
the valley was no longer a valley at all, but a narrowing, rising
corridor between the cliffs.  What happened then I can describe
only as a stupendous crash of music.  At the end of the corridor
and above it--so far above it that it shut out half the sky--hung
the blinding white mass of K3.

  It was like the many pictures I had seen, and at the same time
utterly unlike them.  The shape was there, and the familiar distin-
guishing features: the sweeping skirt of glaciers; the monstrous
vertical precipices of the face and the jagged ice-line of the east
ridge; finally the symmetrical summit pyramid that transfixed the
sky.  But whereas in the pictures the mountain had always seemed
unreal--a dream-image of cloud, snow and crystal--it was now no
longer an image at all.  It was a mass: solid, palpable, appalling.
We were still too far away to see the windy whipping of its
snow-plumes or to hear the cannonading of its avalanches, but
in that sudden silent moment every man of us was for the first
time aware of it not as a picture in his mind, but as a thing,
an antagonist.  For all its twenty-eight thousand feet of lofty
grandeur it seemed, somehow, less to tower than to crouch--a
white-hooded giant, secret and remote, but living.  Living and
on guard.

  I turned my eyes from the dazzling glare and looked at my
companions.  Osborn still stood a little in front of the others.
He was absolutely motionless, his young face tense and shining,
his eyes devouring the mountain as a lover's might devour the
form of his beloved.  One could feel in the very set of his body
the overwhelming desire that swelled in him to act, to come to
grips, to conquer.  A little behind him were ranged the other white
men of the expedition: Randolph, our leader, Wittmer and Johns,
Dr. Schlapp and Bixler.  All were still, their eyes cast upward.  Off
to one side a little stood Nace, the point man, the only one
among us who was not staring at K3 for the first time.  He had
been the last to come up out of the gorge and stood now with
arms folded on his chest, squinting at the great peak he had known
so long and fought so tirelessly and fiercely.  His lean British face,
under its mask of stubble and windburn, was expressionless.  His
lips were a thin line, and his eyes seemed almost shut.  Behind
the sahibs ranged the porters, bent forward over their staffs, their
brown seamed faces straining upward from beneath their loads.

  For a while no one spoke or moved.  The only sounds were
the soft hiss of our breathing and the pounding of our hearts.

  Through the long afternoon we would slowly between the great
boulders of the valley and at sundown pitched camp in the bed
of a dried-up stream.  The porters ate their rations in silence,
wrapped themselves in their blankets and fell asleep under the
stars.  The rest of us, as was our custom, sat close about the fire
that blazed in the circle of tents, discussing the events of the day
and the plans for the next.  It was a flawlessly clear Himalayan
night, and K3 tiered up into the blackness like a gigantic beacon
lighted from within.  There was no wind, but a great tide of cold
air crept down the valley from the ice-fields above, penetrating
our clothing, pressing gently against the canvas of the tents.

  "Another night or two and we'll be needing the sleeping bags,"
commented Randolph.

  Osborn nodded.  "We could use them to-night would be my
guess."

  Randolph turned to Nace.  "What do you say, Martin?"

  The Englishman puffed at his pipe for a moment.  "Rather think
it might be better to wait," he said at last.

  "Wait?  Why?"  Osborn jerked his head up.

  "Well, it gets pretty nippy high up, you know.  I've seen it
thirty below at twenty-five thousand on the east ridge.  The longer
we wait for the bags, the better acclimated we'll get."

  Osborn snorted.  "A lot of good being acclimated will do, if
we have frozen feet."

  "Easy, Paul, easy," cautioned Randolph.  "It seems to me
Martin's right."

  Osborn bit his lip, but said nothing.  The other men entered the
conversation, and soon it had veered to other matters: the weather,
the porters and pack animals, routes, camps and strategy, the
inevitable inexhaustible topics of the climber's world.

  There were all kinds of men among the eight of us, men with
a great diversity of background and interest.  Sayre Randolph,
whom the Alpine Club had named leader of our expedition, had
for years been a well-known explorer and lecturer.  Now in his
middle fifties, he was no longer equal to the gruelling physical
demands of high climbing, but served as planner and organiser
of the enterprise.  Wittmer was a Seattle lawyer, who had recently
made a name for himself by a series of difficult ascents in the
Coast Range of British Columbia.  Johns was an Alaskan, a
fantastically strong able sourdough, who had been a ranger in the
U.S. Forestry Service and had accompanied many famous Alaskan
expeditions.  Schlapp was a practising physician from Milwaukee,
Bixler a government meteorologist with a talent for photography.
I, at the time, was an assistant professor of geology at an eastern
university.

  Finally, and pre-eminently, there were Osborn and Nace.  I say
"pre-eminently," because even at this time, when we had been
together as a party for little more than a month, I believe all of
us realised that these were the two key men of our venture.  None,
to my knowledge, ever expressed it in words, but the conviction
was none the less there that if any of us were eventually to stand
on the summit of K3, it would be one of them, or both.  They
were utterly dissimilar men.  Osborn was twenty-three and a year
out of college, a compact buoyant mass of energy and high spirits.
He seemed to be wholly unaffected by either the physical or mental
hazards of mountaineering and had already, by virtue of many
spectacular ascents in the Alps and Rockies, won a reputation as
the most skilled and audacious of younger American climbers.
Nace was in his forties-lean, taciturn, introspective.  An official
in the Indian Civil Service, he had explored and climbed in the
Himalayas for twenty years.  He had been a member of all four
of the unsuccessful British expeditions to K3, and in his last attempt
had attained to within five hundred feet of the summit, the highest
point which any man had reached on the unconquered giant.
This had been the famous tragic attempt in which his fellow-
climber and lifelong friend, Captain Furness, had slipped and fallen
ten thousand feet to his death.  Nave never mentioned his name,
but on the steel head of his ice-axe were engraved the words: TO
MARTIN FROM JOHN.  If fate were to grant that the axe of any
one of us should be planted upon the summit of K3, I hoped it
would be this one.

  Such were the men who huddled about the fire in the deep
still cold of a Himalayan night.  There were many differences
among us, in temperament as well as in background.  In one or
two cases, notably that of Osborn and Nace, there had already
been a certain amount of friction, and as the venture continued
and the struggles and hardships of the actual ascent began, it
would, I knew, increase.  But differences were unimportant.  What
mattered--all that mattered--was that our purpose was one: to
conquer the monster of rock and ice that now loomed above us
in the night; to stand for a moment where no man, no living
thing, had ever stood before.  To that end we had come from half
a world away, across oceans and continents to the fastnesses of
inner Asia.  To that end we were prepared to endure cold, ex-
haustion and danger, even to the last extremity of human endur-
ance....  Why?...  There is no answer, and at the same time
every man among us knew the answer; every man who has ever
looked upon a great mountain and felt the fever in his blood to
climb and conquer knows the answer.  George Leigh Mallory,
greatest of mountaineers, expressed it once and for all when he
was asked why he wanted to climb unconquered Everest.

  "I want to climb it," said Mallory, "because it is there."


  Day after day we crept on and upward.  Sometimes the moun-
tain was brilliant above us, as it had been when we first saw it;
sometimes it was partially or wholly obscured by tiers of clouds.
The naked desolation of the valley was unrelieved by any motion,
colour or sound, and, as we progressed, the great rock walls that
enclosed it grew so high and steep that its floor received the sun
for less than two hours each day.  The rest of the time it lay in
ashen half-light, its gloom intensified by the dazzling brilliance
of the ice-slopes above.  As long as we remained there we had the
sensation of imprisonment; it was like being trapped at the bottom
of a deep well or in a sealed court between tall skyscrapers.  Soon
we were thinking of the ascent of the shining mountain not only
as an end in itself, but as an escape.

  In our nightly discussions around the fire our conversation
narrowed more and more to the immediate problems confronting
us, and during them I began to realise that the tension between
Osborn and Nace went deeper than I had at first surmised.  There
was rarely any outright argument between them--they were both
far too able mountain men to disagree on fundamentals--but I saw
that at almost every turn they were rubbing each other the wrong
way.  It was a matter of personalities, chiefly.  Osborn was
talkative, enthusiastic, optimistic, always chafing to be up and at
it, always wanting to take the short straight line to the given
point.  Nace, on the other hand, was matter of fact, cautious,
slow.  He was the apostle of trial-and-error and watchful waiting.
Because of his far greater experience and intimate knowledge of
K3 Randolph almost invariably followed his advice, rather than
Osborn's, when a difference of opinion arose.  The younger
man usually capitulated with good grace, but I could tell that he
was irked.

  During the days in the valley I had few occasions to talk privately
with either of them, and only once did either mention the other
in any but the most casual manner.  Even then, the remarks they
made seemed unimportant and I remember them only in view of
what happened later.

  My conversation with Osborn occurred first.  It was while we
were on the march, and Osborn, who was directly behind me,
came up suddenly to my side.  "You're a geologist, Frank," he
began without preamble.  "What do you think of Nace's theory
about the ridge?"

  "What theory?" I asked.

  "He believes we should traverse under it from the glacier up.
Says the ridge itself is too exposed."

  "It looks pretty mean through the telescope."

  "But it's been done before.  He's done it himself.  All right, it's
tough--I'll admit that.  But a decent climber could make it in
half the time the traverse will take."

  "Nace knows the traverse is longer," I said.  "But he seems
certain it will be much easier for us."

  "Easier for _him_ is what he means." Osborn paused, looking
moodily at the ground.  "He was a great climber in his day.  It's
a damn' shame a man can't be honest enough with himself to
know when he's through."  He fell silent and a moment later
dropped back into his place in line.

  It was the same night I think, that I awoke to find Nace sitting
up in his blanket and staring at the mountain.

  "How clear it is," I whispered.

  The Englishman pointed.  "See the ridge?"

  I nodded, my eyes fixed on the great twisting spine of ice that
climbed into the sky.  I could see now, more clearly than in the
blinding sunlight, its huge indentations and jagged wind-swept
pitches.  "It looks impossible," I said.

  "No, it can be climbed.  Trouble is, when you've made it you're
too done in for the summit."

  "Osborn seems to think its shortness would make up for its
difficulty."

  Nace was silent a long moment before answering.  Then for the
first and only time I heard him speak the name of his dead com-
panion.  "That's what Furness thought," he said quietly.  Then
he lay down and wrapped himself in his blanket.

  For the next two weeks the uppermost point of the valley was
our home and workshop.  We established our base camp as close
to the mountain as we could, less than half a mile from the tongue
of its lowest glacier, and plunged into the arduous tasks of prepara-
tion for the ascent.  Our food and equipment were unpacked,
inspected and sorted, and finally repacked in lighter loads for
transportation to more advanced camps.  Hours were spent poring
over maps and charts and studying the intricate heights above us
through telescope and binoculars.  Under Nace's supervision, a
thorough reconnaissance of the glacier was made and the route
across it laid out; then began the backbreaking labour of moving
up supplies and establishing the chain of camps.

  Camps I and II were set up on the glacier itself, in the most
sheltered sites we could find.  Camp III we built at its upper end,
as near as possible to the point where the great rock spine of K3
thrust itself free of ice and began its precipitous ascent.  According
to our plans, this would be the advance base of operations during
the climb.  The camps to be established higher up, on the mountain
proper, would be too small and too exposed to serve as anything
more than one or two nights' shelter.  The total distance between
the base camp and Camp III was only fifteen miles, but the utmost
daily progress of our porters was five miles, and it was essential
that we should never be more than twelve hours' march from
food and shelter.  Hour after hour, day after day, the long file
of men would up and down among the hummocks and crevasses
of the glacier, and finally the time arrived when we were ready to
advance.

  Leaving Dr. Schlapp in charge of eight porters at the base camp,
we proceeded easily and on schedule, reaching Camp I the first
night, Camp II the second and the advance base the third.  No
men were left at Camps I and II, inasmuch as they were designed
simply as caches for food and equipment; and furthermore we
knew we would need all the man power available for the establish-
ment of the higher camps on the mountain proper.

  For more than three weeks now the weather had held perfectly,
but on our first night at the advance base, as if by malignant pre-
arrangement of nature, we had our first taste of the fury of a high
Himalayan storm.  It began with great streamers of lightning that
flashed about the mountain like a halo; then heavily through the
weird glare snow began to fall.  The wind rose.  At first it was
only sound--a remote, desolate moaning in the night high above
us--but soon it descended, sucked down into the deep valley as
if into an enormous funnel.  Hour after hour it howled about the
tents with hurricane frenzy, and the wild flapping of the canvas
dinned in our ears like machine-gun fire.

  There was no sleep for us that night or the next.  For thirty-six
hours the storm raged without lull, while we huddled in the icy
gloom of the tents, exerting our last ounce of strength to keep
from being either buried alive or blown into eternity.  At last, on
the third morning, it was over, and we came out into a world
transformed by a twelve-foot cloak of snow.  No single landmark
remained as it had been before, and our supplies and equipment
were in the wildest confusion.  Fortunately there had not been a
single serious injury, but it was another three days before we had
regained our strength and put the camp in order.

  Then we waited.  The storm did not return, and the sky beyond
the ridges gleamed flawlessly clear; but night and day we could
hear the thunder of avalanches on the mountain above us.  To
have ventured so much as one step into that savage vertical wilder-
ness before the new-fallen snow froze tight would have been
suicidal.  We chafed or waited patiently, according to our indi-
vidual temperaments, while the days dragged by.

  It was late one afternoon that Osborn returned from a short
reconnaissance up the ridge.  His eyes were shining and his voice
jubilant.

  "It's tight," he cried.  "Tight as a drum.  We can go!"  All of
us stopped whatever we were doing.  His excitement leapt like an
electric spark from one to another.  "I went about a thousand
feet, and it's sound all the way.  What do you say, Sayre?  To-
morrow?"

  Randolph hesitated, then looked at Nace.

  "Better give it another day or two," said the Englishman.

  Osborn glared at him.  "Why?" he challenged.

  "It's generally safer to wait until----"

  "Wait!  Wait!" Osborn exploded.  "Don't you ever think
of anything but waiting?  My God, man, the snow's firm, I tell
you!"

  "It's firm down here," Nace replied quietly, "because the sun
hits it only two hours a day.  Up above it gets sun for twelve
hours.  It may not have frozen yet."

  "The avalanches have stopped."

  "That doesn't necessarily mean it will hold a man's weight."

  "It seems to me that Martin's point----" Randolph began.

  Osborn wheeled on him.  "Sure," he snapped.  "I know.
Martin's right.  The damned cautious bloody English are always
right.  Let him have his way, and we'll be sitting here chewing
our nails until the mountain falls down on us." His eyes flashed to
Nace.  "Maybe with a little less of that damned bloody cautious-
ness you English wouldn't have made such a mess of Everest.
Maybe your pals Mallory and Furness wouldn't be dead."

  "Osborn!" commanded Ralph sharply.

  The youngster stared at Nace for a moment, breathing
heavily.  Then abruptly he turned away.

  The next two days were clear and windless, but we still waited,
following Nace's advice.  There were no further brushes between
him an Osborn, but an unpleasant air of restlessless and tension
hung over the camp.  I found myself chafing almost as impatiently
as Osborn himself for the moment when we would break out of
that maddening inactivity and begin the assault.

  At last the day came.  With the first paling of the sky a roped
file of men, bent almost double beneath heavy loads, began slowly
to climb the ice-slope, just beneath the jagged line of the east
ridge.  In accordance with prearranged plan, we proceeded in
relays, this first group consisting of Nace, Johns, myself and eight
porters.  It was our job to ascend approximately two thousand
feet in a day's climbing and establish Camp IV at the most level
and sheltered site we could find.  We would spend the night there
and return to the advance base next day, while the second relay,
consisting of Osborn, Wittmer and eight more porters, went up
with their loads.  This process was to continue until all necessary
supplies were at Camp IV, and then the whole thing would be
repeated between Camps IV and V and V and VI.  From VI, at
an altitude of about 26,000 feet, the ablest and fittest men--pre-
sumably Nace and Osborn--would make the direct assault on the
summit.  Randolph and Bixler were to remain at the advance base
throughout the operations, acting as directors and co-ordinators.
We were under the strictest orders that any man--sahib or porter
--who suffered illness or injury should be brought down imme-
diately.

  How shall I describe those next two weeks beneath the great
ice-ridge of K3?  In a sense there was no occurrence of importance,
and at the same time everything happened that could possibly
happen, short of actual disaster.  We established Camp IV, came
down again, went up again, came down again.  Then we crept
laboriously higher.  With our axes we hacked uncountable thou-
sands of steps in the gleaming walls of ice.  Among the rocky
outcroppings of the cliffs we clung to holds and strained at ropes
until we thought our arms would spring from their sockets.  Winds
swooped down on us, battered us and passed, and the air grew
steadily colder and more difficult to breathe.  One morning two of
the porters awoke with their feet frozen black; they had to be
sent down.  A short while later Johns developed an uncontrollable
nose-bleed and was forced to descend to a lower camp.  Wittmer
was suffering from racking headaches and I from a continually dry
throat.  But providentially, the one enemy we feared the most in
that ice gale-lashed hell did not again attack us.  No snow fell.
And day by day, foot by foot, we ascended.

  It is during ordeals like this that the surface trappings of a man
are shed and his secret mettle laid bare.  There were no shirkers
or quitters among us--I had known that from the beginning--but
now, with each passing day, it became more manifest which were
the strongest and ablest among us.  Beyond all arguments, these
were Osborn and Nace.

  Osborn was magnificent.  All the boyish impatience and moodi-
ness which he had exhibited earlier were gone, and, now that he
was at last at work in his natural element, he emerged as the peerless
mountaineer he was.  His energy was inexhaustible, his speed,
both on rock and ice, almost twice that of any other man in the
party.  He was always discovering new routes and short-cuts.
Often he ascended by the ridge itself, instead of using the traverse
beneath it, as had been officially prescribed; but his craftsmanship
was so sure and his performance so brilliant that no one ever
thought of taking him to task.  Indeed, there was such vigour,
buoyancy and youth in everything he did that it gave heart to all
the rest of us.

  In contrast, Nace was slow, methodical, unspectacular.  Since
he and I worked in the same relay, I was with him almost con-
stantly, and to this day I carry in my mind the clear image of the
man: his tall body bent almost double against shimmering slopes
of ice; his lean brown face bent in utter concentration on the
problem in hand, then raised searchingly to the next; the bright
prong of his axe rising, falling, rising, falling with tireless rhythm,
until the steps in the glassy incline were so wide and deep that the
most clumsy of the porters could not have slipped from them had
he tried.  Osborn attacked the mountain head on.  Nace studied it,
sparred with it, wore it down.  His spirit did not flap from his
sleeve like a pennon; it was deep inside him--patient, indomitable.

  The day soon came when I learned from him what it is to be
a great mountaineer.  We were making the ascent from Camp IV
to V, and an almost perpendicular ice-wall had made it necessary
for us to come out for a few yards on the exposed crest of the
ridge.  There were six of us in the party, roped together, with
Nace leading, myself second and four porters bringing up the rear.
The ridge at this particular point was free of snow, but razor-
thin, and the rocks were covered with a smooth glaze of ice.
On either side the mountain dropped away in sheer precipices of
five thousand feet.

  Suddenly the last porter slipped.  I heard the ominous scraping
of boot-nails behind me and, turning, saw a gesticulating figure
plunge sideways into the abyss.  There was a scream as the next
porter was jerked off too.  I remember trying frantically to dig
into the ridge with my axe, realising at the same time it would no
more hold against the weight of the falling men than a pin stuck
in a wall.  Then I heard Nace shout, "Jump!"  As he said it, the
rope went tight about my waist, and I went hurtling after him into
space on the opposite side of the ridge.  After me came the nearest
porter....

  What happened then must have happened in five yards and a
fifth of a second.  I heard myself cry out, and the glacier, a mile
below, rushed up at me, spinning.  Then both were blotted out in
a violent spasm, as the rope jerked taut.  I hung for a moment,
an inert mass, feeling that my body had been cut in two; then
I swung in slowly to the side of the mountain.  Above me the rope
lay tight and motionless across the crest of the ridge, our weight
exactly counterbalancing that of the men who had fallen on the
far slope.

  Nace's voice came up from below.  "You chaps on the other
side!" he shouted.  "Start climbing slowly.  We're climbing
too."

  In five minutes we had all regained the ridge.  The porters and
I crouched panting on the jagged rocks, our eyes closed, the sweat
beading our faces in frozen drops.  Nace carefully examined the
rope that again hung loosely between us.

  "All right, men," he said presently.  "Let's get on to camp for
a cup of tea."


  Above camp V the whole aspect of the ascent changed.  The
angle of the ridge eased off, and the ice, which lower down had
covered the mountain like a sheath, lay only in scattered patches
between the rocks.  Fresh enemies, however, instantly appeared to
take the place of the old.  We were now labouring at an altitude
of more than 25,000 feet--well above the summits of the highest
surrounding peaks--and day and night, without protection or
respite, we were buffeted by the fury of the wind.  Worse than
this was that the atmosphere had become so rarefied it could
scarcely support life.  Breathing itself was a major physical effort,
and our progress upward consisted of two or three painful steps
followed by a long period of rest in which our hearts pounded
wildly and our burning lungs gasped for air.  Each of us carried
a small cylinder of oxygen in his pack, but we used it only in
emergencies and found that, while its immediate effect was salutary,
it left us later even worse off than before.  My throat dried and
contracted until it felt as if it were lined with brass.  The faces of
all of us, under our beards and windburn, grew haggard and
strained.

  But the great struggle was now mental as much as physical.  The
lack of air induced a lethargy of mind and spirit; confidence and
the powers of thought and decision waned, and dark foreboding
crept out from the secret recesses of the subconscious.  The wind
seemed to carry strange sounds, and we kept imagining we saw
things which we knew were not there.  The mountain, to all of us,
was no longer a mere giant of rock and ice; it had become a living
thing, an enemy, watching us, waiting for us, hostile, relentless
and aware.  Inch by inch we crept upward through that empty
forgotten world above the world, and only one last thing remained
to us of human consciousness and human will: to go on.  To
go on.

  On the fifteenth day after we had first left the advance base
we pitched Camp VI at an altitude of almost 26,000 feet.  It
was located near the uppermost extremity of the east ridge,
directly beneath the so-called shoulder of the mountain.  On the
far side of the shoulder the vast north face of K3 fell sheer to the
glaciers, two miles below.  And above it and to the left rose the
symmetrical bulk of the summit pyramid.  The topmost rocks
of its highest pinnacle were clearly visible from the shoulder, and
the intervening two thousand feet seemed to offer no insuperable
obstacles.

  Camp VI, which was in reality no camp at all, but a single tent,
was large enough to accommodate only three men.  Osborn
established it with the aid of Wittmer and one porter; then, the
following morning, Wittmer and the porter descended to Camp V,
and Nace and I went up.  It was our plan that Osborn and Nace
should launch the final assault--the next day, if the weather held
--with myself in support, following their progress through bino-
culars and going to their aid or summoning help from below if
anything went wrong.  As the three of us lay in the tent that
night, the summit seemed already within arm's reach, victory
securely in our grasp.

  Then the blow fell.  With malignant timing, which no power
on earth could have made us believe was a simple accident of
nature, the mountain hurled at us its last line of defence.  It
snowed.

  For a day and a night the great flakes drove down upon us,
swirling and swooping in the wind, blotting out the summit, the
shoulder, everything beyond the tiny white-walled radius of our
tent.  Hour after hour we lay in our sleeping bags, stirring only
to eat or to secure the straining ropes and canvas.  Our feet froze
under their thick layers of wool and rawhide.  Our heads and
bodies throbbed with a dull nameless aching, and time crept over
our numbed minds like a glacier.  At last, during the morning of
the following day, it cleared.  The sun came out in a thin blue
sky, and the summit pyramid again appeared above us, now
whitely robed in fresh snow.  But still we waited.  Until the snow
either froze or was blown away by the wind it would have been
the rashest courting of destruction for us to have ascended a foot
beyond the camp.  Another day passed.  And another.

  By the third nightfall our nerves were at the breaking point.
For hours on end we had scarcely moved or spoken, and the only
sounds in all the world were the endless moaning of the wind out-
side and the harsh sucking noise of our breathing.  I knew that,
one way or another, the end had come.  Our meagre food supply
was running out; even with careful rationing there was enough
left for only two more days.

  Presently Nace stirred in his sleeping-bag and sat up.  "We'll
have to go down to-morrow," he said quietly.

  For a moment there was silence in the tent.  Then Osborn
struggled to a sitting position and faced him.

  "No," he said.

  "There's still too much loose snow above.  We can't make it."

  "But it's clear.  As long as we can see----"

  Nace shook his head.  "Too dangerous.  We'll go down to-
morrow and lay in a fresh supply.  Then we'll try again."

  "Once we go down we're licked.  You know it."

  Nace shrugged.  "Better to be licked than----"  The strain of
speech was suddenly too much for him and he fell into a paroxysm
of coughing.  When it had passed there was a long silence.

  Suddenly Osborn spoke again.  "Look, Nace," he said, "I'm
going up to-morrow."

  The Englishman shook his head.

  "I'm going--understand?"

  For the first time since I had known him I saw Nace's eyes flash
in anger.  "I'm the senior member of this group," he said.  "I
forbid you to go!"

  Osborn jerked himself to his knees, almost upsetting the tine
tent.  "You forbid me?  This may be your fifth time on the moun-
tain, and all that, but by God you don't _own_ it!  I know what
you're up to.  You haven't got it in you to make the top yourself,
so you don't want anyone else to make it.  That's it, isn't it?  Isn't
it?"  He sat down again suddenly, gasping for breath.

  Nace looked at him with level eyes.  "This mountain has beaten
me four times," he said softly.  "It killed my best friend.  It means
more to me to climb it than anything else in the world.  Maybe
I'll make it and maybe I won't.  But if I do, it will be as a rational
intelligent human being--not as a damned fool throwing my life
away."

  He collapsed into another fit of coughing and fell back in his
sleeping-bag.  Osborn, too, was still.  They lay there inert, panting,
too exhausted for speech.

  It was hours later than I awoke from dull uneasy sleep.  In the
faint light I saw Nace fumbling with the flap of the tent.

  "What is it?" I asked.

  "Osborn.  He's gone."

  The words cut like a blade through my lethargy.  I struggled
to my feet and followed Nace from the tent.

  Outside, the dawn was seeping up the eastern sky.  It was very
cold, but the wind had fallen and the mountain seemed to hang
suspended in a vast stillness.  Above us the summit pyramid
climbed bleakly into space, like the last outpost of a spent and
lifeless planet.  Raising my binoculars, I swept them over the grey
waste.  At first I saw nothing but rock and ice; then, suddenly,
something moved.

  "I've got him," I whispered.

  As I spoke, the figure of Osborn sprang into clear focus against
a patch of ice.  He took three or four slow upward steps, stopped,
went on again.  I handed the glasses to Nace.

  The Englishman squinted through them, returned them to me
and re-entered the tent.  When I followed he had already laced
his boots and was pulling on his outer gloves.

  "He's not far," he said.  "Can't have been gone more than half
an hour."  He seized his ice-axe and started out again.

  "Wait," I said.  "I'm going with you."

  Nace shook his head.  "Better stay here."

  "I'm going with you," I said.

  He said nothing further, but waited while I made ready.  In a
few moments we left the tent, roped up and started off.

  Almost immediately we were on the shoulder and confronted
with the paralysing two-mile drop of the north face; but we
negotiated the short exposed stretch without mishap and in ten
minutes were working up the base of the summit pyramid.  The
going here was easier, in a purely climbing sense: the angle of
ascent was not steep, and there was firm rock for hand- and foot-
holds between the patches of snow and ice.  Our progress,
however, was creepingly slow.  There seemed to be literally no
air at all, and after almost every step we were forced to rest,
panting and gasping as we leaned forward against our axes. My
heart swelled and throbbed with every movement until I
thought it would explode.

  The minutes crawled into hours, and still we climbed.  Presently
the sun came up.  Its level rays streamed across the clouds, far
below, and glinted from the summits of distant peaks.  But,
although the pinnacle of K3 soared a full three thousand feet above
anything in the surrounding world, we had scarcely any sense of
height.  The wilderness of mountain valley and glacier that spread
beneath us to the horizon was flattened and remote, and unreal in-
substantial landscape seen in a dream.  We had no connection
with it, or it with us.  All living, all awareness, purpose and will,
were concentrated in the next step, and the next; to put one foot
before the other; to breathe; to ascend.  We struggled on in silence.

  I don't know how long it was since we had left the camp--it
might have been two hours, it might have been six--when we
suddenly sighted Osborn.  We had not been able to find him again
since our first glimpse through the binoculars; but now, unex-
pectedly and abruptly, as we came up over a bulge of rock, there
he was.  He was at a point, only a few yards above us, where the
mountain steepened into an almost vertical wall.  The smooth
surface directly in front of him was obviously unclimbable, but
two alternate routes were presented.  To the left, a chimney cut
obliquely across the wall, forbiddingly steep, but seeming to offer
adequate holds.  To the right was a gentle slope of snow that
curved upward and out of sight behind the rocks.  As we watched,
Osborn ascended to the edge of the snow, stopped and probed it
with his axe.  Then, apparently satisfied that it would bear his
weight he stepped out on the slope.

  I felt Nace's body tense.  "Paul!" he cried out.

  His voice was too weak and hoarse to carry.  Osborn
continued his ascent.

  Nace cupped his hands and called his name again, and this time
Osborn turned.  "Wait!" cried the Englishman.

  Osborn stood still, watching us, as we struggled up the few
yards to the edge of the snow-slope.  Nace's breath came in
