VISITATION

AT EIGHT-THIRTY on a mild spring evening, Albert Delahaye sat
waiting in the lounge of the Stockley Inn.  He was a boy of not
quite seventeen, tall and angular, but with a certain fineness of
bone and feature that mitigated the awkwardness of adolescence.
His light hair was cropped short, and his face (which he now
shaved once a week) was pink and clear.  His sports jacked and
grey flannels were sloppy but "right".  As he waited, he kept
rubbing his hands along the trousers between thigh and knee.  For
the palms were clammy and cold.

  There were only two other persons in the lounge, and both were
reading.  One was old Dr. Newton, who had retired the previous
year as school chaplain; the other Miss Pennock, even older, who,
though she had no known connection with Stockley Academy,
was reputed to have lived at the Inn for no less than forty years.
There were no other students, no teachers, no parents.  Parents
staying at the Inn put in their appearance on a Saturday afternoon
or Sunday morning, not at eight-thirty on a Tuesday night.  Or
at least all except one parent, thought Albert Delahaye.

  He was waiting for his father.

  He looked at his watch, and it was eight thirty-two.  When he
looked again it was eight thirty-six.  He got up, walked out on to
the porch, walked back again.  Dr. Newton shifted the book on
his lap and cleared his throat, and Albert sat down again.  He
wished fervently that Dr. Newton and Miss Pennock would go up
to their rooms.  Even more, he wished that _he_ could go--back to
the dorm.

  Sudden thought.  Uncertainty.  Had he misunderstood the
hour?  Or even the night?...  No.  The words were as clear in
his ears now as when he had taken the call the night before in
Mr. Brown's study.

  "Al--this is your dad."

  "Who?"

  "Your father."

  "Oh.  Yes--father?"

  "How are you, boy?"

  "Very well, thank you."

  "Look, Al," the strange voice had gone on, "I'm in Boston.
Thought I might run up to-morrow."

  "To-morrow?"  Short pause.  "But to-morrow's Tuesday."

  "Good figuring, boy.  They really keep you posted up there."

  "I'll have----"

  "I know: classes.  I'll come late.  Hold on a minute while I try
to figure this goddamn time-table."

  Albert had glanced nervously at Mr. Brown, who was at his
desk correcting math papers; but the housemaster gave no indi-
cation of having heard.

  "I've got it," said the voice from Boston.  "Train leaves here
at seven-ten, gets to Stockley at eight twenty-three."

  "If it's after eight, sir, I won't be able----"

  "Never mind meeting it.  There's some sort of hotel, isn't there?
I'll meet you there.  Eight-thirty, say....  Christ on a bicycle,
how can it take a train an hour and thirteen minutes to go twenty-
seven miles?"

  And click--the strange voice was gone.

  It hadn't, to be sure, come _quite_ out of the blue.  Two weeks
ago his mother had made her regular spring visit to Stockley (on
a week-end, of course), and after the inevitable discussion of Latin
marks, cigarette-smoking and the state of his bureau drawers she
had come around to the remaining thing on her mind.

  "I want to speak to you about your father, Albert," she had
begun quietly; and it had been so long since she had even men-
tioned him that at first Albert had thought she meant his stepfather.

  "No, I mean your _father_," she explained.  "He's back from
Europe, you know."

  "Oh."

  "I think he's getting divorced again, or something of the sort.
Anyhow, he phoned me from New York a few days ago--about
some old legal matter--and mentioned that he planned to come
up to see you."

  Again, "Oh."

  "You haven't heard from him?"

  "No, Mother."

  "Well, perhaps you won't.  As likely as not he's forgotten all
about it.  But, on the other hand, he may not have, and I thought
I should----" his mother had paused, seeking the _mot juste_--"well,
_prepare_ you.  After all, you don't know him very well."

  That was true enough, Albert's father and mother had been
divorced when he was four years old, two years later she had
married John Sheppard, and from then on Albert, too, had been a
Sheppard, in everything but name.  The old house in Brookline,
the summers on the Cape, his half-brother Tom and his half-sister
Peg, Grandpa and Grandma Sheppard and all the Sheppard uncles
and aunts and cousins: these were his attachments, his family, his
life.  They were part of him and he was part of them; and one
day, when he finished with Stockley and Harvard, he would be
part, too, of Sheppard, Sutherland and Co., the third-oldest invest-
ment banking house in Boston.

  _Father_, the thought.  My _father_.  But he rejected the notion as
quickly as it came to him.  John Sheppard was his father.  This
other man was a word, a postcard, a Christmas gift, an occasional
vague unhappy shadow crossing his mother's face.  He was a name
flashed momentarily on a moving picture screen: VAN DELAHAYE
PRESENTS.  A line in a newspaper column: VAN DELAHAYE SHED
BY NO. 3.  Once a tabloid headline (with picture): PRODUCER
SLUGS AGENT IN CAFÉ BRAWL....  "Fighting blood in them
Delahayes," some of his classmates had cracked.  But, thank
God, they had only been joking.  They hadn't know it really
_was_ his father.

  His mother's face had been pale and pensive as they sat that
afternoon in his room in Morris House.  Her voice had been
pained but determinedly reasonable.  "You must be fair about
your father, Albert," she told him.  "You must not be prejudiced."

  "I just don't want to----"

  "Yes, yes, I know.  I understand, dear."  His mother had closed
her eyes for a moment.  "But you're not a child any longer,
Albert, and there are certain things you must learn to face.  Your
father has what are called Rights of Visitation; he is entitled to
see you if he wishes to."

  "But if _I_ don't wish----"

  His mother shook her head.  "You will have to see him if he
comes," she told him.  "It will be hard, of course; but, as I say,
you're almost a man now, dear, and perhaps it will be better in
the long run if----"  Another pause.  Her lips tightened.  "If
you see for yourself," she muttered.

  "I've seen already," said Albert.

  With a sudden jerky movement he had got up and crossed to
his desk.  Riffling through a drawer, he brought out the hateful
tabloid clipping, crossed to his mother and held it out at her.

  "You mean he's like this," he said.  His mother didn't answer.

  "You mean he drinks, don't you?  He drinks and gets married
and gets divorced, and in between times he hits people.  He used
to drink and hit you, didn't he?"

  "Oh, Albert, I don't want you to----"

  "_Didn't he?_"  He could hear his own voice, strident and quaver-
ing.

  "It--it's all so long ago now," his mother said faintly; "and,
as I say, you mustn't be prejudiced.  You father has his good
points, I'm sure.  Some people even think he's quite talented.
Perhaps it's just that he's lived such a peculiar sort of life. I don't
think he can help it if he's--well--different from us.  If he's--I
don't know if I can explain, dear--not quite a gentleman...."

  Albert's anger had been quick flaring, an instinctual protective
response to the pain this man had caused his mother.  It was not
anger that he felt now, as he sat waiting in the still, ticking silence
of the Stockley Inn, but something hollower and much more
unpleasant than anger.  It was like--like that feeling he had
before his Cicero exams, when he knew the worst even before he
saw it.

  Eight forty-five... Miss Pennock sighed a little, and Dr.
Newton turned a page.

  There had been many times, of course, when he head thought
about his father; times, even, when he had nursed a secret half-
admitted hope that he might some day visit him in California.
He would certainly like to see how moving pictures were made,
nor would he mind meeting--well--say Betty Grable or Elizabeth
Taylor.  Even his father might seem all right out there in his
own loud crazy world....  But here... (There was the hollow-
ness again, and the cold palms.)  Here in the Stockley Inn, in front
of Dr. Newton and Miss Pennock.  And to-morrow, in front of
everyone who----

  Eight forty-seven....  Beam of hope.  He wasn't coming....

  Then a car door slammed outside, and someone entered the lobby.

  "Al, boy----"

  It may not actually have been a roar, but in the stillness of the
Stockley Inn it was a fairly close approximation.  From the corner
of his eye Albert could see Dr. Newton and Miss Pennock, their
faces still bent to their books but obviously no longer reading.  In
front of him, but much less clear, his father was shaking his hand.

  "Sorry to hang you up, boy.  Damn train was late of course....
God, look at the size of you...."

  For Albert, his father was slowly emerging from blur into focus.
He was--what?--fifty, forty-five: Albert didn't know.  Anyhow,
he looked younger than he had expected, with a lean, quick-moving
body, beaked face and small humorous eyes.  His thick grey-
streaked hair was rumpled, and his clothes were rumpled too.
But at least, Albert noted gratefully, the were eastern clothes,
not Hollywood.  Jacket and trousers matched.  The shoes were
black.  The shirt was white.  Add a good pressing and a hat, and
he would have seemed a proper business or professional man--like
any other Stockley father.

  "Let's get the protocol over with," he said, taking his son's
arm and heading for the desk in the lobby.  There he woke old
Mr. Gannett from his doze, asked for a room and signed the
register.

  "Where's the bar, Pop?" he asked pleasantly.

  Mr. Gannett looked at him as if he had spoken in Polish, and
Albert, avoding Mr. Gannett's eyes, explained that there was no
bar.

  "Fenwick's, down in town, has a fountain," Mr. Gannett
volunteered.  "Shuts up at nine, though."

  Father and son returned to the lounge, where Dr. Newton and
Miss Pennock were still reading.  "I should have remembered
about these Yankee vice-traps," said Mr. Delahaye, chuckling.

  "When you start travelling, boy, always be on the safe side and
take a bottle with you."

  They sat down.

  "Well, Al, it's good to see you."

  His mother and stepfather called him Albert.  His contemporaries
called him Bert.  Every time his father called him Al it grated like
chalk on the blackboard.

  "It's good to see you, sir," he said.

  "Everything all right, Al?"

  "Yes, sir."

  "Happy here?"

  "Yes, sir."

  There was a silence.  Dr. Newton and Miss Pennock turned
pages simultaneously.  Albert looked at his watch.

  The phone rang in the lobby, and after a few moments Mr.
Gannett came in.  "Call for Mr. Delahaye," he said.

  "Oh Christ," said Mr. Delahaye.

  He got up and went out.  There was no booth in the lobby
of the Stockley Inn, and his voice, when he picked up the phone
at the desk, was clear as when he had been in the lounge.

  "Yes.... Who?... Damn it to hell, Manny, I told you
I didn't want to be bothered this trip.... What? Who? Dwight
Duncan, no less.  Well, you can tell that incompetent egotistical
sonofa----"

  There was a neat plunk as Dr. Newton shut his book; then a
series of neat taps as his heels moved across the lounge, across the
lobby, up the stairs.

  "... No, that's all," came the voice from outside.  "I don't
want to talk about it....  I don't care if you're calling from
Borneo....  And I don't want any more calls--not if all damn'
twelve Apostles walk into the studio."

  Miss Pennock, apparently, was too stricken even to move.  Her
bird-blue eyes were staring into the lobby as if at some sort of
mythological monster.

  Mr. Delahaye came back into the lounge.  "Sorry, Al," he said,
"but in this cockeyed business of mine----"  He broke off with
a happy inspiration.  "Look, I've got an idea.  Let's get out of this
morgue for a while.  We'll get a cab and run over to Lowell or
somewhere, and find a decent bar."

  Albert had risen.  (Or at least he thought he had.)  "I--I'm
sorry, sir," he murmured.  "It's after nine--I didn't realise--and
I have to get back to----"

  "Hell, don't worry about that.  What's your housemaster's
number?  I'll call him."

  "No--no thanks, really, sir.  I have to--work for to-morrow--
there's an exam and--really----"  By this time Albert had worked
his way out into the lobby.  "Well, good night, sir----"

  He fled.


  The part about the examination had not been true, but there
were, of course, classes.  From eight to nine Albert fidgeted
through geometry, from nine to ten through French composition.
Then came an hour's free period--which was the logical time to
go to the Inn--but he finally succeeded in convincing himself of
an even more logical reason for going back to his dormitory.
He might as well have spared himself the trouble, however, for
his father was sitting in his room.

  "Hallo, boy," said Mr. Delahaye cheerfully.  "Thought I'd
take a look at how the other half lives."

  This morning, Albert saw at once, he _was_ dressed "that way."
Houndstooth jacket, fawn-coloured slacks, open-necked shirt,
saddle shoes.  Not even Nick the janitor would have mistaken him
for a banker or a manufacturer.

  Albert tried unsuccessfully to think of something to say.  Then
his father took out a pack of cigarettes and offered him one.

  "Oh no, sir," he said.

  "Don't use them?"

  "I--er--I---- Well, once in a while I do, over in Commons,
although Mother doesn't like it.  But in the dorms they're very
strict about it.  If Mr. Brown caught me----"

  "No need for him to catch you.  Look, I'll show you one of the
first principles of aerodynamics.  Learned it when I was twelve."
Mr. Delahaye lit a cigarette, crossed to the small brick fireplace,
and, lying on the floor with his head on the hearth, blew a stream
of smoke up the flue.  "Comes a knock on the door," he said.
"Mr. Brown.  Quick!"  The hand holding the cigarette darted
up the flue.  "All you need is a wad of gum up there to hold it.
Enter Mr. Brown.  No smoke.  No cigarette."  You're just in-
vestigating a draught."

  He eased out of the fireplace, but remained on the floor, sitting
with his knees up and his back against the wall.  His small keen
eyes looked at Albert, and Albert looked out the window.

  "Well, son," said the father, "it's been a long time."

  "Yes, sir," said Albert.

  "We've got some getting acquainted to do."

  "Yes, sir."

  "I haven't been much of a dad to you, I know that.  Partly,
of course, it's because I haven't been around much.  And then
partly, too, it's been--well----"

  Mr. Delahaye rose and began wandering about the room.  Com-
ing to Albert's desk, he paused and looked at one of the two
framed photographs that stood upon it.  "Now here," he said, "is
a gentleman who obviously cares about his family.  Almost as
much as about first mortgages."

  His glance moved to the other photograph.  "I'll bet your
mother's been good to you too....  Do you know something,
Al?"  His voice grew a little wistful.  "She's a real lady, your
mother.  Even when she used to lose her temper and throw
ash-trays at me, she did it, by God, like a duchess."

  On the desk between the photographs was the untidy
of Albert's school books.  Dismissing Mr. and Mrs. Sheppard
from his thoughts, his father fingered casually down the
line....  "Aha," he said, presently, pulling one out.  "Look
what's here."

  "That's Cicero," Albert explained.  "It's in Latin."

  "Really?" said Mr. Delahaye, turning the pages.

  "Yes, sir.  It's the Latin that comes between Cæsar and Virgil
and it--it's----" Albert hesitated, uncertain how to go on.  How
could he explain this greatest of his problems to someone who
probably didn't know the difference between Cicero and Kipling?
"Oh, it's awful stuff," he said miserably.  "If it wasn't for Cicero,
I'd have had a general B average last term.  I didn't want to take
it in the first place, but Mother and Fath--I mean Mr. Sheppard
--they said for a real sound background--you know--but it's the
dullest, dopiest thing I ever----"

  Mr. Delahaye continued turning the pages.  "What's it about,
son?" he asked.

  "That's the trouble: it isn't about anything.  It's an old fool
making speeches, and somebody called Cataline that he's mad at,
and you never saw such a vocabulary, with the word order all
mixed up----"

  "Hmm----" said Mr. Delahaye.  "I'm not much on Latin, of
course, but I had a sort of idea it might be interesting."

  "Interesting!"  Albert was about to go on; then stopped and
gave up.  If his mother and John Sheppard (who had gone to
Harvard) had no sympathy for his misery, how could he expect
it from a man like his father?

  Across the campus, welcomely, a bell began to toll, and Albert
looked at his watch.  "I'm sorry, sir," he said, "but I've a class
at eleven."

  Mr. Delahaye put down the Cicero.  "I'll walk you over," he
said.

  "But--but----"

  The "buts" were unphrasable.  Here in the privacy of his room
it had not been so bad; interesting, even, in a peculiar sort of
way.  But outside--there was the hollowness in the stomach again
--outside it would probably be even worse than last night in
the Inn.  There would be his schoolmates, his teachers; there
might even be Dr. Warriner, the headmaster.  They would look
coolly and curiously at the stranger in the queer clothes; at
the vulgar and loud-mouthed showman from Hollywood; at the
father of Albert Delahaye, who had SLUGGED AGENT IN CAFÉ
BRAWL.

  "But I--I'm late, sir," the boy said.  "I may have to run."

  "I'll run with you," said his father.  "Used to do a fair 440
back at Wilkes-Barre High."

  Albert swallowed.  He started for the door, stopped, and looked
at Mr. Delahaye with desperate misery.

  "Something wrong, son?"

  "I--er--if I gave you one, would you please, sir--please----?"
The word stuck.

  "Would I what?"

  _"Wear a tie, sir,"_ Albert blurted.

  For a long moment Mr. Delahaye looked at his son without
speaking.  His small eyes became even smaller, and at first they
seemed to be looking right through him, and then they changed
and even seemed to be smiling.  "Well now--a tie," he said.  "Forgot
all about that, you know.  All about the old school tie."

  "W--would you, sir?"

  "All right, son.  Sure.  Why not?"  Mr. Delahaye contem-
plated the boy for another moment.  "On one condition though,"
he added.  "I'll make a deal with you."

  "A deal, sir?"

  "That you for Christ's sweet sake, stop calling me _sir._"

  "Y--yes, sir," murmured Albert.



  It was not as bad as he had expected.

  On the way to his class his father swore only three times--indeed
only once within hearing of anyone, and they were mere lower-
formers.  A few passers-by looked at them curiously;  but, by
careful choice of route, Albert managed to avoid a head-on meeting
with either a classmate or faculty member.  Before his father left
him he suggested that he bring a friend or two to lunch at the Inn,
but when Albert made up an excuse he didn't force the issue.
As the boy sank down in his classroom seat, it was with a profound
sigh of relief.

  Lunch, too, passed without major crisis.  Dr. Newton was not
in evidence, and Miss Pennock was already emerging from the
dining-room when they entered.  His father did not (as he had half
feared) produce a bottle from his inside pocker.  He was still wear-
ing Albert's tie.  His language was peculiar but quiet.  By the
time the apple pie à la mode appeared Albert was almost able
to enjoy it.

  Then it happened.

  Mr. Delahaye pushed back his coffee cup, lit a cigarette and said
casually, "You're finished with your last class at five--is that
right, son?"

  "Yes, s----.  Yes, Father."

  "Good.  We have a date at five-fifteen."

  "A date?"

  "With the headmaster."

  Albert's jaw sagged.  The sweetness in his mouth turned into
gall and wormwood.  "With--with----"  Nothing came out.

  "Yes, Dr.--what's his name?--Warriner," said his father cheer-
fully.  "Said he thought you'd be free at that time, and could we
drop in for a visit."

  "You mean--you _called_ him?"

  "No, he called me.  Said he'd heard I was here and would like
to have a little talk....  Maybe about that Cicero trouble of
yours," he added, winking.

  But Albert didn't see that wink.  He scarcely saw his father's
face at all.  Where it should have been was another face: pale,
asthetic, ministerial, with high-bridged nose and thin, controlled
lips.  The face of Authority.  The face of Righteousness.  The face
of Dr. Thornton Beale Warriner, Ph.D., Th.D., L.H.D., Litt.D.,
Headmaster, for whom Hollywood and hell were, beyond all
doubt, exact synonyms.


  He had been in the Headmaster's house only once before: at
a reception for "new boys" when he had first come to the school
three years ago.  Such contact as Dr. Warriner had with his
students took place in his office in the Administration Building.
His home was simply a place to be passed with lowered voices; an
austere mystery; the holy of holies.

  They were admitted by a maid who looked even older than
Miss Pennock.  They sat in the living-room, waiting, while the
portraits of dead headmasters frowned down on them from the
walls.

  Then the live headmaster appeared.

  "Er--ah--Albert," he said, nodding.  Then, shaking hands
with his father: "Mr. Delahaye--a pleasure."

  Then they were sitting again.  Dr. Warriner said something
about the weather, and his father agreed.  His father said some-
thing about the campus, and Dr. Warriner expressed his apprecia-
tion.  There was some back-and-forth about New England versus
South-western architecture, and Albert stared concentratedly at the
patterns of the rug.  After five minutes his father had still not said
_damn_ or put his feet on the coffee table.

  "I know how busy a man you are," Dr. Warriner was saying,
"and I appreciate your taking the time for this little visit."

  Mr. Delahaye said something and laughed.  Dr. Warriner said
something and laughed.  There was some talk about California,
Europe, New York.  Then Dr. Warriner got up, went to a cabinet
in the corner and came back with a bottle.  "I'm afraid all I can
offer is sherry," he apologised, "but I think you'll find this a rather
nice amontillado."

  He produced two glasses, then a third, larger one.  "Ginger-ale,
Albert?"

  Albert must have said yes, for presently he found himself sipping
a drink.  It felt welcomely cool in his bone-dry mouth.

  Meanwhile the two men had resumed their conversation.  Or,
rather, Dr. Warriner had resumed his.  "Europe one day," he
murmured.  "New York the next.  California the next.  I confess
it's still rather a staggering thought to an old stay-at-home like
myself.  Pedagogy--yes, it has its rewards, to be sure; but it's
confining, Mr. Delahaye--terribly confining.  One tries to keep
abreast, of course; to move with the times; to take the broarter
view.  But----"

  _"Thornton----"

  A woman's voice floated down the stairs: soft, almost quavering,
yet with an indefinable note of power.  Dr. Warriner excused
himself and left the room.

  "Mrs. Warriner has been ill for the past few days," he explained
on his return.  "Fortunately nothing serious; merely some--er--
female indisposition, the doctor says.  But it has been trying for
her."

  He took a drink of his sherry and returned to the international
scene.  England: poor but proud.  France: graceful chaos.  Italy:
an amazing recovery.  Mr. Delahaye has been making a motion
picture in Italy, had he not?

  Yes, Mr. Delahaye had.

  "I have seen many references to it in the newspapers.  It sounds
most interesting....  Rome in the great days of the Republic----"
Dr. Warriner's voice warmed to a bright academic glow.  "What
could provide a richer and more fascinating background?"

  "It's been a rather unusual job," Mr. Delahaye conceded.

  "Forgive my curiosity; but you see, in my teaching days, the
classics were my fiend.  What is the exact period involved?  Do
you present actual historical figures?  Scipio, perhaps?  Fabius?
Hannibal?"

  "The chief character," said Mr. Delahaye, "is Cicero."

  "Ah, now--Cicero!"  Dr. Warriner was about to continue;
then paused and glanced questioningly at Albert.  "You were
about to say something, boy?" he inquired.

  "N-no, sir," said Albert.

  The headmaster turned back to Mr. Delahaye.  "Yes, Cicero
----" he went on.  "A marvellously interesting subject.  Perhaps
the truest--the most Roman--Roman of them all."

  "Perhaps the most American, too."

  "American?"  Dr. Warriner looked puzzled.  "I--er--I'm
afraid I don't quite----"

  "What we've tried to do in this picture," said Mr. Delahaye,
"is to go back into ancient history for the best parallels we could
find with life in the world to-day.  We hope it will be good enter-
tainment-naturally.  But more than that, as well.  As I say, a
parallel.  And the longer we searched for the proper story--the
proper character--the more convinced I became that Cicero was
our man.  A politician, but an honest one.  A fighter but a fair
fighter.  A champion of decency, of straight dealing, of human
rights, while ranged against him are all the connivers, the con-
spirators, the opportunists who----"

  The puzzlement had gone from Dr. Warriner's face.  He began
nodding his head and murmuring, "Yes...yes...yes."  As
Mr. Delahaye continued, he rose and filled the empty sherry glasses.
His bright blue eyes were now positively alight with enthusiasm.

  "A remarkable concept!" he declared, when Mr. Delahaye
paused.  "So rich in suggestion, in implication, in living
values----"

  Dr. Warriner's voice had risen with his enthusiasm, but it was
still no match for the voice that again came down the stairway.

  _"Thornton----"_

  Again he excused himself.  Five minutes passed.  Mr. Delahaye
softly whistled "The Mop Song," and Albert studied the carpet.

  When the headmaster reappeared he was carrying a clipped
sheaf of papers, which he put down on the coffee table.

  "Forgive me," he murmured.  "But poor Mrs. Warriner, you
know--I'm afraid she's quite uncomfortable....  No, no, don't
go.  Please.  I wouldn't think of it."  He drank what was left of
his sherry and refilled the glasses.  "Well, now."  He sat down
again.  "I cannot tell you, Mr. Delahaye, how impressed I am with
what you have been saying.  Indeed, it strikes a deep chord within
me.  To popularise the great classics--not to cheapen or vulgarise
them, mind you--but simply to bring them back to life: that is
precisely what I have hoped and striven for all through my life
as a teacher."

  He glanced at the papers on the table as if he were seeing them
for the first time.  "Ah, yes--here is an example of what I mean.
This typescript."  He picked it up gently.  "It is a little thing on
which I have been working on and off for several years.  An adap-
tation of _Phædra,_ one of the earlier plays of Seneca.  Interestingly
enough, I have attempted to accomplish precisely what you have
done with this motion picture of yours: remain true to the classic
tradition and at the same time infuse it with the modern spirit."

  A brief pause.  The headmaster cleared his throat.  Somehow
the typescript had found its way into Mr. Delahaye's lap.

  "I was wondering," Dr. Warriner murmured, "if perhaps you
might be good enough.... Oh, not now, to be sure; any time
at your leisure.  I have several copies, you see, and...  And I
would _most_ appreciate your opinion of its possibilities."

  "Wouldn't it be better for you to----"

  "To send it to a publisher?  I already have, to several.  They
were all extremely interested, of course, but--well, frankly, they
failed to understand its real implications.  You, on the other hand,
already understand them.  You have had wide experience, broad
contacts, a knowledge of public taste.  The scenes will leap into life
before your eyes.  Personally, I confess, I have always rather fancied
Ronald Colman for the role of Marcellus.  But naturally if you
feel that Walter Pidgeon or Claude Rains would be better----"

  Dr. Warriner's face was no longer pale but a delicate pink.  He
reached for the sherry bottle.  For several moments he seemed not
to hear the voice from upstairs calling, _"Thornton--Thornton----"



  Mr. Delahaye took the seven forty-eight for Boston, and Albert
walked back alone from the station through the soft spring night.
His first class in the morning was geometry, and it needed prepara-
tion; but for a long time, back in his room, he simply sat in the
old morris chair, staring out the window.

  Finally he rose and went to his desk.  For a few moments he
stood looking curiously at the photographs of his mother and
Mr. Sheppard; then he took a book from the row between them
and, from the back of the bottom drawer, a pack of cigarettes and
some matches.  Crossing the room, he stretched himself out on the
carpet with his head close to the fireplace.  He lit a cigarette, put
the match in his pocket, and blew a stream of smoke up the flue.
The he opened his Cicero.
